---
date: 2017-12-23
title: Logs for the Community Meeting Held on 2017-12-23
summary: Community highlights, Forum Funding System updates, RFC-HWALLET-1, Malware Response Workgroup, Forum Funding System donor flairs, and miscellaneous
tags: [dev diaries, crypto]
author: dEBRUYNE / fluffypony
---

# Logs  

**\<sgp>** 0. Introduction  
**\<sgp>** We would like to welcome everyone to this Monero Community Meeting!  
**\<sgp>** Link to agenda on GitHub: https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/148  
**\<sgp>** Monero Community meetings are a discussion place for anything going on in the Monero Community. We use meetings to encourage the community to share ideas and provide support.  
**\<sgp>** 1. Greetings  
**\<rehrar>** Ye  
**\<ErCiccione>** hi ya  
**\<rehrar>** Perfect. Let's continue.  
**\<sgp>** 2. Community highlights  
**\<sgp>** For a great weekly summary, please read the Monero Observer: http://monero-observer.com/  
**\<sgp>** 3. FFS updates  
**\<sgp>** There are several FFS updates.  
**\<sgp>** a. RFC-HWALLET-1 project progress  
**\<sgp>** @msvb-lab @msvb-mob any updates?  
**\<ErCiccione>** i have some from the localization group  
**\<sgp>** Ok great, let's get to that in one sec  
**\<sgp>** Ok, well we can cover these if anyone from the hardware wallet team is present  
**\<sgp>** Their Taiga page is here: https://taiga.getmonero.org/project/michael-rfc-hwallet-1-implementation/  
**\<sgp>** b. localization  
**\<sgp>** Go ahead, ErCiccione  
**\<ErCiccione>** ok, thanks sgp  
**\<ErCiccione>** Nothing special btw, we are almost completely set with the structure of the localization workgroup. rehrar made a pr for making the website multilingual and we are getting ready for that, since it's gonna be my main concern for at least the next month  
**\<ErCiccione>** we now have guides for translating: GUI wallet, meetup kit, kovri, the future website (still wip) and soon a graphic tutorial for Git. And i'm really looking forward to that  
**\<sgp>** Anything else you would like to add?  
**\<ErCiccione>** we got many translations for the meetup kit and i'm happy to say we have almost completely filled the page containing the translations of the gui :)  
**\<ErCiccione>** just contacts:  
**\<ErCiccione>** any update can be found on our taiga project: https://taiga.getmonero.org/project/erciccione-monero-localization/ and #monero-translations is our support channel  
**\<ErCiccione>** if anybody have any question, i'm happy to answer  
**\<ErCiccione>** that's it from me  
**\<sgp>** Suppose I wanted to add language 'x'. How much time would it typically take one person to translate the website, and how much time for the GUI?  
**\<sgp>** I know it's a broad question; I'm just looking for very rough numbers  
**\<ErCiccione>** ading a language for the GUI is quite straightforward but depends how much a contributor knows about git. If he/she has a good knowledge, usually can be ready to get merged within the same day (of course, reviews aside). But usually a PR is ready in a couple of days, if the contributor needs support  
**\<ErCiccione>** about the website  
**\<ErCiccione>** i tested it and looks like quite easy, the main "issue" is that there are a lot of pages to translate, so i'm working on a workflow that will give priority to the most important pages  
**\<sgp>** Thanks  
**\<sgp>** Does anyone else have a FFS update?  
**\<ErCiccione>** that also shouldn't take long, i usually review and test the same day or the one after  
**\<sgp>** 4. Malware Response Workgroup  
**\<sgp>** I have taken on the initiative of organizing the Malware Response Workgroup. If you are interested, please go to #monero-malware-respon  
**\<sgp>** I have updated the Taiga wiki project with several help guides for web mining, system mining, and ransomware https://taiga.getmonero.org/project/sgp-monero-malware-response-workgroup/wiki/home  
**\<sgp>** These are still drafts, but it shows the general idea  
**\<sgp>** The goals of this project are to help those with compromised machines and to show others that many Monero community members discourage and help limit malware.  
**\<sgp>** We can use volunteers now to help review these documents, and later to help people  
**\<sgp>** Any questions?  
**\<ErCiccione>** looks quite today. (pinging: @serhack @needmoney90 dEBRUYNE gingeropulous)  
**\<ErCiccione>** (@pablonero mattcode xmrscott)  
**\<sgp>** It's close to a major holiday  
**\<sgp>** Well, that's all for the formal part of the meeting  
**\<sgp>** 5. Open ideas time  
**\<sgp>** It’s open ideas time! Feel free to propose your ideas to this discussion group, and feel free to comment on others’ ideas. If you disagree with the idea, please reply with constructive criticism. Thank you!  
**\<ErCiccione>** i do have one  
**\<netg>** u need to really build and develope the site with real users and their feedback  
**\<netg>** very important  
**\<netg>** we cant think like a non technical person who is infected  
**\<netg>** and what would help him  
**\<sgp>** @netg let's have erciccione go first, then we can discuss the website further  
**\<netg>** ok sorry  
**\<sgp>** no worries!  
**\<ErCiccione>** ok  
**\<ErCiccione>** basically i had an idea to increase the level of involvement of the community about participating in ffs funding, this using reddit's flairs (rehrar told him he and dEBRUYNE were thinking about something similar)  
**\<ErCiccione>** basically more FFS's you contribute to, higher is the "rank" of the flair. This is the system of ranking i had in mind:  
**\<ErCiccione>** 1     : Rookie Supporter  
**\<ErCiccione>** 2-3   : Supporter  
**\<ErCiccione>** 4-5-6 : Coach  
**\<ErCiccione>** 7-8-9 : Barolo Provider  
**\<ErCiccione>** 10+   : Maecenas (or Patron?)  
**\<ErCiccione>** The point here is that the amount donated doesn't matter, to get the best shiny flair the user is pushed to donate to many FFS, but according to his/her possibilities.  
**\<sgp>** I like this idea  
**\<sgp>** @ErCiccione there you have it, 100% community approval :p  
**\<rehrar>** Ye  
**\<sgp>** It may be a little difficult to implement though since you will need to have some way for people to say they donated and verify that  
**\<ErCiccione>** I never playied with reddit's flairs, i'd like to try to implement this myself if you guys agree. lol thanks community!  
**\<sgp>** tx IDs would probably be enough for something small like this  
**\<rehrar>** 1. Little tiny baby supporter 2. Toddler support 3. We note that you can be a beautiful being one day here 4. Puberty supporter 5. Young and strong (but not for long) supporter etc.  
**\<ErCiccione>** Yes, i guess it would. or we can enforce the use of the same nick you use on reddit for the forum, if you want the flair  
**\<rehrar>**  Spreadsheet would be necessary.  
**\<sgp>** Yeah, just make something cool/cute and go with it  
**\<sgp>** Donate $1m to a single project -> "itsy bitsy supporter" :D  
**\<sgp>** Anything else you want to discuss about this idea?  
**\<ErCiccione>** lol, no should be enough.  
**\<sgp>** Ok @netg  
**\<sgp>** I think everyone agrees Monero should be more accessible  
**\<netg>** i dont know  
**\<netg>** kali linux or tor project  
**\<netg>** they lead their space 100% but they arent to super accessible  
**\<netg>** for me it would be ok if monereo just alive and healthy  
**\<rehrar>** Netg you talking about official website?  
**\<netg>** dont need to be mainstream coin , who has to offer to m mainstream  
**\<netg>** no, now about the project  
**\<netg>** i mean its the same question  
**\<netg>** if u go for the general public and usage of monero by non technical people  
**\<netg>** you have to do alot of work in your malware group  
**\<netg>** and before that in educating potential users and the community  
**\<netg>** its a question where the project is gonna heading to  
**\<sgp>** Have you looked at the meetup kit materials? Do you think those are good material for new users?  
**\<netg>** mainstream usage or usage by a educated, sophisticated crowd  
**\<sgp>** I think both  
**\<rehrar>** Monero has to be for everyone. There is no other option.  
**\<sgp>** Different wallets can tailor expereinces to different target audiences  
**\<rehrar>** Otherwise it simply becomes another tool for the rich, who historically are the educated.  
**\<sgp>** Or only a tool for the malicious :(  
**\<rehrar>** Who historically has been everybody. :P  
**\<sgp>** \@netg does that answer your question?  
**\<netg>** i mean, great approach from idealistic kind of view  
**\<rehrar>** Yes, netg, I agree a dichotomy exists between the sophisticated user and the non-technical, normal person. This will denote two different kinds of education, as you have alluded to.  
**\<netg>** it will be ALOT of work  
**\<rehrar>** I agree. It will be a lot of work. And it is work well invested in my opinion. And should nobody else want to do this work, I will. :)  
**\<rehrar>** But there are more. ;) No worries.  
**\<rehrar>** Bitcoin started out as something quite idealistic too.  
**\<netg>** yeah fuck , i mean monero historically always choosed the  best approach and design  
**\<netg>** even if it was alot of work  
**\<netg>** maybe we should stay in that tradition  
**\<rehrar>** I see Monero as carrying on the touch Bitcoin dropped.  
**\<ErCiccione>** i agree it will worth it, even just for the public image of Monero  
**\<netg>** rehrar: obvious, thats the reason why alot of old school bitcoin supporters switched to monero , instantly after reading about it  
**\<sgp>** Any other questions?  
**\<netg>** When will Monero been moon? :)  
**\<netg>** \-en  
**\<rehrar>** Yesterday  
**\<sgp>** Hasn't it already? :)  
**\<rehrar>** You missed it. Sorry. :(  
**\<netg>** "cant tell you, the moons privacy needs to be respected"  
**\<sgp>** 6. Confirm next meeting date/time  
**\<sgp>** The next Monero Coffee Chat will be two weeks from today on 6 January. We need to decide when to have the next meeting. I suggest moving the next meeting to 13 January and then continuing biweekly from there to avoid another conflict in February.  
**\<rehrar>** Devs want to keep dev and community meetings on different weeks.  
**\<sgp>** Hmm, not sure what to do then  
**\<rehrar>** What conflict is in Feb?@  
**\<ErCiccione>** the week after or on a different day of the week  
**\<sgp>** If we stay with the current meeting schedule it will fall on the first Saturday of the month  
**\<sgp>** I suppose I could delay the Coffee Chat instead  
**\<rehrar>** Skip that one.  
**\<rehrar>** Or do that.  
**\<ErCiccione>** maybe delay it not skip  
**\<sgp>** Ok, let's plan for the next meeting to be two weeks from today on 6 January at 17:00 UTC  
**\<ErCiccione>** agreed  
**\<sgp>** 7. Conclusion  
**\<sgp>** That’s all! Thanks for attending this Monero Community meeting, and we hope to see you on /r/MoneroCommunity and #monero-community. Take care, and know that change starts with YOU.  