---
date: 2019-10-26
title: Logs for the Community Meeting Held on 2019-10-26
summary: Community highlights, CCS updates, Workgroup report, 0.15 naming discussion, and miscellaneous
tags: [dev diaries, crypto]
author: el00ruobuob / SamsungGalaxyPlayer
---

# Logs  


**\<sgp\_>** Meeting time  
**\<sgp\_>** 0. Introduction  
**\<sgp\_>** We would like to welcome everyone to this Monero Community Workgroup Meeting!  
**\<sgp\_>** Link to agenda on GitHub: https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/405  
**\<sgp\_>** Monero Community meetings are a discussion place for anything going on in the Monero Community, including other Monero workgroups. We use meetings to encourage the community to share ideas and provide support. Fun fact: you are awesome :)  
**\<sgp\_>** 1. Greetings  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** Hello!  
**\<sgp\_>** ping dEBRUYNE rehrar ErCiccione[m] xmrscott[m]  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Hi all. Thanks for the ping sgp\_  
**\<sgp\_>** needmonero90 dsc\_ gingeropolous sarang  
**\<gingeropolous>** yo  
**\<sgp\_>** hopefully more people pour in later  
**\<sgp\_>** 2. Community highlights  
**\<sgp\_>** See Monero weekly highlights at https://revuo-monero.com  
**\<sgp\_>** Reminder that 0.15 is expected on October 31, with the scheduled protocol upgrade on November 30: https://getmonero.org/2019/10/01/announcement-release-0-15.html  
**\<needmonero90>** Oh, right, meetings are a thing on Saturdays  
**\<sgp\_>** The code is frozen! Get testing!  
**\<sgp\_>** We tried out a gaming session two weeks ago, and we had our coffee chat last week which was excellent despite technical challenges.  
**\<sgp\_>** Are there any outstanding questions regarding the upcoming update, or does anyone have community (non-workgroup) updates to share?  
**\<needmonero90>** Last coffee chat was packed  
**\<needmonero90>** We need that more  
**\<sgp\_>** super stacked lineup indeed :)  
**\<msvb-mob>** Hello.  
**\<needmonero90>** I expect you're going to link your poll soon enough, so I'll hold off  
**\<sgp\_>** yup :)  
**\<sgp\_>** needmonero90: can you create that update thread for exchanges in r/xmrtrader?  
**\<needmonero90>** Will do during this meeting.  
**\<sgp\_>** excellent  
**\<thunderosa>** I guess it's a community update. The new Monero Pool UI is coming out in the next few days. Half the size, twice the speed, new features etc.  
**\<sgp\_>** did someone else volunteer for the mining pool list for r/moneromining? I don't recall if I signed up for that  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<rehrar>** Hey. I'm in Mexico right now.  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<rehrar>** Won't be back home for a few hours.  
**\<needmonero90>** Okay amigo  
**\<sgp\_>** thunderosa: very cool  
**\<rottensox>** what i miss.  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<rehrar>** Left a comment on the meta issue of the meeting.  
**\<sgp\_>** rehrar: yes, I added a section to discuss :)  
**\<sgp\_>** let's proceed  
**\<sgp\_>** 3. CCS updates  
**\<sgp\_>** Funding required:'  
**\<sgp\_>** Rehrar to 36C3 (4.42 / 58.65) https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/rehrar-36c3-expenses.html  
**\<sgp\_>** Multiple features and fixes for getmonero.org: https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/ErCiccione-website.html  
**\<sgp\_>** Ziphonâ€™s request was overfunded! https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/xiphon-part-time-2.html  
**\<sgp\_>** \*xiphon  
**\<sgp\_>** Ideas (to be discussed):  
**\<sgp\_>** WIP: Norwegian translation (3 XMR): https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/merge\_requests/102, and  
**\<sgp\_>** moneromooo, from November 2019 (395 XMR): https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/merge\_requests/103  
**\<needmonero90>** Xiphon\*  
**\<needmonero90>** Oh you corrected my nad  
**\<needmonero90>** Bad  
**\<sgp\_>** any comments? or shall I take the silence as approval?  
**\<needmonero90>** My silence is approval on everything other than the rehrar funding proposal, which has its own issues that have been discussed  
**\<needmonero90>** Not sure if it's resolved, but I'll take it to back channels first  
**\<needmonero90>** (issues meaning the speed at which it was merged, potential for alternatives with lower travel fees, etc)  
**\<sgp\_>** sure, it's already been moved, so that complicates things a bit  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** i silently approve moneromooo, looking into the Norwegian.  
**\<sgp\_>** did you hope that it would be discussed during a meeting first needmonero90?  
**\<needmonero90>** I can't recall where the conversation is at, so I don't want to cover old ground  
**\<ErCiccione>** I suggested the guy for Norwegian to open the CCS and make the post on reddit, but i also asked to write references for his work. So, i'm waiting for those before i express my vote on that  
**\<needmonero90>** Just wanted to express in meeting that that particular proposal is a thorny issue  
**\<sgp\_>** all right. it was officially open for 4 days  
**\<needmonero90>** Not long enough or with enough discussion imo  
**\<sgp\_>** thanks ErCiccione. fwiw I find the asking amount for that proposal pretty reasonable  
**\<ErCiccione>** sgp\_: I agree on that.  
**\<sgp\_>** Any other CCS comments before we move on?  
**\<needmonero90>** none here  
**\<sgp\_>** 4. Workgroup report  
**\<sgp\_>** a. Daemon/CLI workgroup  
**\<sgp\_>** Code freeze. All the things happened.  
**\<needmonero90>** I was confused when I saw a reddit thread about getting translations done \*before\* the freeze (maybe I misread)  
**\<sgp\_>** most notably the pay-by-hash for remote node use PR  
**\<needmonero90>** which didnt make sense, I thought translations and stuff were ideal after the freeze  
**\<sgp\_>** needmonero90: my understanding is that there are essentially two freezes, so it depends on which one you call the "freeze." ErCiccione would be able to explain more though  
**\<needmonero90>** https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/dlxyiu/monero\_translators\_we\_need\_you\_to\_make\_one\_final/  
**\<monerobux>** [REDDIT] Monero translators, we need you to make one final sprint! The code freeze is imminent. (self.Monero) | 112 points (99.0%) | 15 comments | Posted by ErCiccione | Created at 2019-10-23 - 11:33:44  
**\<needmonero90>** ah, okay  
**\<ErCiccione>** needmonero90:  translations and stuff were ideal after the freeze \<- They are, but for this release the GUI has been ready for some time, with no strings added  
**\<needmonero90>** I thought code freeze meant the codebase was in a state where bugfixes and text data would be updated  
**\<needmonero90>** or, thats the ideal place  
**\<ErCiccione>** if there are no new strings we can start a bit earlier  
**\<needmonero90>** im curious when the deadlines are for translation work  
**\<ErCiccione>** the deadline was yesterday for CLI and today for GUI  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** They've both come to pass  
**\<needmonero90>** ah, so no translations in this release  
**\<needmonero90>** no more\*  
**\<sgp\_>** there were two weblate PRs I think  
**\<sgp\_>** This brings up to b. Localization workgroup anyway  
**\<sgp\_>** \*us  
**\<ErCiccione>** needmonero90: weblate is open, if people keep translating (and approving strings), we can open another PR. But that never happens  
**\<ErCiccione>** well, it's open for the CLI. GUI is locked because i pushed the translations today and they have to be merged before i unlock it  
**\<sgp\_>** code freeze\*                 \*except for optimistic translations  
**\<ErCiccione>** yeah  
**\<hyc>** code freeze: no more code changes besides bugfixes  
**\<hyc>** text changes, doc changes - probably still fair game  
**\<needmonero90>** thats what I thought from past projects I've interacted with  
**\<sgp\_>** Can we take a step back and let us know how how the localization process happened this time ErCiccione? Or any other contributor  
**\<ErCiccione>** the thing is.We never had a proper code freeze, so i was usually waiting until all the features were in and then ask translators to translate,  
**\<ErCiccione>** now with an actual code freeze and release week after, we had to do things a bit earlier  
**\<ErCiccione>** sgp\_: sure  
**\<ErCiccione>** Weblate was open since i announced it. There was few activity until my last calls for translators on reddit and twitter. I gave as a deadline the day of the beginning of the code freeze. merged those, translators can keep translate,  
**\<ErCiccione>** and if there are enough strings translated i PR them to the repo (GUI or CLI) when it's possible to do so  
**\<sgp\_>** Do people like using weblate?  
**\<ErCiccione>** As far as i can see, they seem to love it  
**\<ErCiccione>** and i agree  
**\<ErCiccione>** after the release we will use it for the website as well, i don't know if i already said that  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** Very much so  
**\<sgp\_>** thanks  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** Grammatical checks and similar strings os incredibly powerful, and you don't need to find your own locally run client for those features, all browser based  
**\<sgp\_>** I'm glad people like the system. It will help make translations more approachable to people who want to help  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** We should add MyMonero app at some point too  
**\<ErCiccione>** xmrscott: today i added some more QT specific checks, should be even more accurate now  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** And as an aside to highlight how amazing it is, when I got the OpenWrt to start using it they described it as very addictive :)  
**\<ErCiccione>** about the workflow: i'm roughly using the "continuous translations" system weblate suggests https://docs.weblate.org/en/weblate-2.8/admin/continuous.html  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** My person favorite feature is the ability to get new emails when new strings are added  
**\<ErCiccione>** yeah the notification system can be personalized a lot  
**\<sgp\_>** Any other localization comments?  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** i just saw that, that's great!  
**\<sgp\_>** c. GUI workgroup  
**\<sgp\_>** GUI code freeze is today. i2p support will come in a later point release unfortunately  
**\<sgp\_>** the complexity of the code took a toll on some contributors who need more time to make it happen  
**\<sgp\_>** related note: dsc has been teasing a new non-core GUI that he made on the side  
**\<sgp\_>** Any questions? I'll do my best to answer  
**\<rottensox>** na. move on.  
**\<needmonero90>** I believe there was some discussion on renaming the GUI?  
**\<needmonero90>** idk where that went  
**\<needmonero90>** some people thought "Monero GUI" was too clinical/technical, and wanted something "warmer" for new users (my words)  
**\<sgp\_>** needmonero90: I'm going to table that discussion for this meeting, but here is the relevant naming discussion that xmrscott[m] is championing: https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/384  
**\<thunderosa>** I'll just chime in with wanting to banish anything "graphical interface" because the public has never seen a non-graphical interface.  
**\<needmonero90>** wasn't trying to discuss it, just find the discussion point :)  
**\<thunderosa>** It's inside reality vs outside reality.  
**\<sgp\_>** no problem, thanks for mentioning  
**\<sgp\_>** is sarang free to do a quick MRL update?  
**\<sgp\_>** d. Monero Research Lab  
**\<sgp\_>** Surae made significant progress on his matching code, with preliminary results now available for validation. Sarang did some hard moon math. Their meeting logs are on Github under meta.  
**\<sgp\_>** We also discussed subaddress association (and the related Janus attack). See this article and the accompanying Breaking Monero episode: https://getmonero.org/2019/10/18/subaddress-janus.html  
**\<sgp\_>** if there are no other comments or questions, we can move on to 5  
**\<sgp\_>** 5. Monero 0.15 release name  
**\<sgp\_>** We need to pick a release name. To assist this, Iâ€™ve solicited feedback informally in this ranked-choice poll: https://civs.cs.cornell.edu/cgi-bin/vote.pl?id=E\_e228920d8a4d1cec&akey=ebaf2172a4c2dcc9  
**\<sgp\_>** Results:  
**\<sgp\_>** 1. Carbon Callisto  
**\<sgp\_>** 2. Carbon Comet  
**\<sgp\_>** 3. Carbon Crab  
**\<sgp\_>** 4. Carbon Chamaeleon (or Chameleon)  
**\<sgp\_>** 5. Carbon Cosmos  
**\<sgp\_>** at this point we really need to pick a name, fast  
**\<needmonero90>** I'll do a quick Telegram poll  
**\<thunderosa>** Callisto is already the name of a crypto-project. Comet or Cosmos are both strong  
**\<needmonero90>** speaking of projects with the same name, cosmos?  
**\<needmonero90>** lol  
**\<sgp\_>** I shared this on Telegram too needmonero90, but other feedback is welcome. You can point them to the same link if you like. I can keep it up for the rest of the day  
**\<thunderosa>** well, it's a little more universal I guess  
**\<darkaleph>** callisto is a little on the nose as well  
**\<rottensox>** Carbon Comet is a winner.  
**\<needmonero90>** crab too :(  
**\<sgp\_>** I'm fine with all 5 of those choices honestly  
**\<needmonero90>** though lots of elements have a C, so  
**\<sgp\_>** crab is probably my least favorite though  
**\<hyc>** I dislike COmmet / Consetllation /whatever as too generic  
**\<thunderosa>** yeah, crab = bad  
**\<needmonero90>** D:\<  
**\<needmonero90>** how dare you  
**\<needmonero90>** I'll fork off  
**\<hyc>** the name should be a specific celestial body, not a general type of object  
**\<sgp\_>** lol sorry :p  
**\<needmonero90>** crab nebula\*  
**\<needmonero90>** btw  
**\<sgp\_>** "MASSIVE Monero naming dispute"  
**\<hyc>** So Callisto, Crab, Chamaeleon are the only proper nouns in this selection  
**\<thunderosa>** Cassiopeia  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** Luna wasn't a specific celestial body hyc   
**\<hyc>** yes it is Luna is a proper name for the earth's moon  
**\<sgp\_>** hyc: I interpret the naming convention a little more loosely, so I'm ok with any of these if they make sense  
**\<sgp\_>** in some ways, the simplicity is a strength  
**\<rottensox>** luna is moon in Spanish  
**\<rottensox>** yeah, i'll see myself out.  
**\<rottensox>** Carbon Comet dammit.  
**\<sarang>** Sorry I stepped away for a moment  
**\<needmonero90>** \\o/  
**\<needmonero90>** welcome back  
**\<sgp\_>** Carbon Callisto is both simple and unique enough that it's a reasonable compromise imo  
**\<sarang>** Hit a bump in a soundness proof  
**\<sarang>** I'm working on alternate approaches  
**\<needmonero90>** sgp\_: https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/callisto-network/  
**\<thunderosa>** Yeah, and it's a bullshit coin too.  
**\<needmonero90>** at rank 694 we'd trounce their SEO, so its nbd  
**\<sgp\_>** yeah I'm not too concerned about that :p  
**\<needmonero90>** after looking at it, I think using Callisto isn't a problem, even though its another crypto project  
**\<needmonero90>** my concerns are gone now  
**\<needmonero90>** https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/cosmos/  
**\<needmonero90>** that tho  
**\<needmonero90>** cosmos is out  
**\<sgp\_>** yeah, probably not the best idea  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** Carbon Crommelin Comet, abreviated in Carbon Comet ?  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/27P/Crommelin  
**\<monerobux>** [WIKIPEDIA] 27P/Crommelin | "Comet Crommelin, also known as Comet Pons-Coggia-Winnecke-Forbes, is a periodic comet with an orbital period of almost 28 years. It fits the classical definition of a Halley-type comet with (20 years \< period \< 200 years). It is named after the British astronomer Andrew C. D. Crommelin who calculated..."  
**\<sgp\_>** Does anyone hate Carbon Callisto?  
**\<needmonero90>** the name doesnt conjure up strong feelings of space in my mind  
**\<hyc>** I'm ok with Callisto  
**\<needmonero90>** but I'm indifferent  
**\<sgp\_>** two voters who actually ranked everything in the poll rated it pretty low  
**\<thunderosa>** I've got a bad association, but it's probably personal...I'm ok.  
**\<sgp\_>** but for most people, it was the top 1-4 choices  
**\<hyc>** well, I recognize it as a moon of Jupiter so that works for me. but not much in love with it  
**\<needmonero90>** if we go with Comet, I can see some retro cleaning product advertisement pushes by outreach  
**\<hyc>** Chamaeleon is still my #1. multiple people pointed out its self-changing nature  
**\<needmonero90>** https://i.pinimg.com/originals/3c/34/2b/3c342b122549bade835eaa0fcdc906f2.jpg  
**\<needmonero90>** "with ring signatures"  
**\<thunderosa>** yeah, chamaleon is a decent choice,...it has some personality  
**\<ErCiccione>** i like Callisto  
**\<sgp\_>** The Chamaeleon / Chameleon similarities is a small weakness imo. Would be better if they were spelled the same way  
**\<needmonero90>** I have a solution  
**\<sgp\_>** lol @ comet ad needmonero90  
**\<needmonero90>** lets call it Carbon ChamÃ¦leon  
**\<sgp\_>** lol  
**\<needmonero90>** fixes all the issues :D  
**\<hyc>** ok with me. alternate spellings, easier spelling, whatever  
**\<thunderosa>** +1 Carbon Chamaleon (or however it's spelled)  
**\<sgp\_>** well, hopefully this helps Core in some way make a decision :)  
**\<needmonero90>** lets table the bikeshedding, debruyne and I will figure out a reddit thread and stuff  
**\<darkaleph>** chameleon is better then callisto but if you want heavenly bodies with a nod to rings then Cassini is cool  
**\<sgp\_>** we should move on to the final main topic  
**\<needmonero90>** nah, move back sgp  
**\<needmonero90>** sarang is here now  
**\<sgp\_>** sure, sarang do you have a quick summary?  
**\<needmonero90>** maybe he's afk again :(  
**\<sgp\_>** lol  
**\<sgp\_>** he can take the stage if he comes back  
**\<sgp\_>** 6. Extracurricular activities  
**\<sgp\_>** Rehrar asked to reserve some time for extracurricular activities. Fun things that we can do to help foster the community.  
**\<sgp\_>** We tried a gaming session that was a good start, but it wasn't too fun for viewers  
**\<sgp\_>** We still have some room to test things out there I think  
**\<sgp\_>** I recently paid for a premium Kahoot subscription for r/cryptocurrency, so we can use that for fun quizzes if we want  
**\<sgp\_>** but ultimately, what activites would be useful to help bond the community together? what would you like to see the Monero community do?  
**\<rottensox>** videogames, sports, even board games tournaments. put together by the community for the community and its users...  
**\<sgp\_>** board games are cool, but they're a little difficult to play online  
**\<rottensox>** livestreaming community members playing a videogame won't do much.  
**\<hyc>** this community isn't collected together because of gaming  
**\<sgp\_>** we probably need an announcer for the games  
**\<sgp\_>** hyc: of course not, but we're looking for other excuses to do things  
**\<rottensox>** well, I precisely said board games to do them face to face...  
**\<rottensox>** gaming can help others understand a truckload of things. through gaming you can achieve many things...  
**\<thunderosa>** I don't really like it, but gambling type stuff has been popular. Maybe that could be made to be more interactive or team-based or something.  
**\<rottensox>** there's a lot of room for us to grow. ruling out games be it videogames, board games, sports or anything you can think of is very short-sighted.  
**\<hyc>** sure. maybe you can try putting together an educational game about monero, money, finance...  
**\<sgp\_>** cooperative minko lol  
**\<rottensox>** a little guy created moneropoly...  
**\<sgp\_>** I wonder if that could somehow be done as a giveaway instead of gambling like it was done at Defcon  
**\<rottensox>** a tournament of moneropoly? :-)  
**\<sgp\_>** but I wonder how much appeal that has  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** i'm in for a moneropolly tournament  
**\<rottensox>** a set of cards whose arts are xmr-related?  
**\<thunderosa>** monopoly actually kinda words online,..more than most other games at least  
**\<rottensox>** see? there we go. interest spiking.  
**\<needmonero90>** hyc: corporations aren't collected together because of golf, but its still a fantastic excuse to do something outside of a business context in a more casual situation  
**\<rottensox>** thunderosa: you have not played moneropoly, have you?  
**\<needmonero90>** for example.  
**\<thunderosa>** no, I saw the post and thought it was a cool. I'm a Monopoly hound from way back.  
**\<sgp\_>** A Monero-themed cards against humanity could maybe work, but I think the websites that support custom cards are really dated  
**\<hyc>** you could do moneropoly with live wallets  
**\<hyc>** on testnet coins  
**\<needmonero90>** finally my testnet hoard will be useful  
**\<sarang>** Gah, i am back!  
**\<thunderosa>** well, just a $1 buy-in to play,....the pot gets split somehow with the winner and the house  
**\<sarang>** Multitasking is failing me  
**\<thunderosa>** goes to the fund or something  
**\<sgp\_>** Can we somehow make "Game of Whales" work? Somehow related to Game of Thrones  
**\<needmonero90>** more like unitasking  
**\<needmonero90>** sarang whats the summary?  
**\<rottensox>** outreach and rehrar can help these idea pan out?  
**\<needmonero90>** sgp\_: Lets discuss game stuff unlogged after-meeting :)  
**\<sarang>** I have been hard at work on a new transaction protocol  
**\<rottensox>** s/idea/ideas  
**\<monerobux>** rottensox meant to say: outreach and rehrar can help these ideas pan out?  
**\<sgp\_>** sure needmonero90. good to get some ideas rolling while people are paying attention  
**\<sarang>** A really cool multi input version works but the soundness proof does not  
**\<sarang>** A single input version does have proofs that are working  
**\<sarang>** But I would love to get the former proven properly  
**\<sarang>** It's so close  
**\<sarang>** I have a full writeup to share at Mondays meeting  
**\<needmonero90>** anything happening on the other protocol fronts?  
**\<needmonero90>** Halo, RCT3, lelantus?  
**\<needmonero90>** or are those same as before  
**\<sarang>** I want to backport some RCT3 stuff for efficiency comparisons  
**\<sarang>** Nothing new on Omniring given its batch limitations  
**\<sarang>** The RCT3 stuff was on hold due to this new protocol  
**\<sarang>** So much math to do!  
**\<rottensox>** sounds right up your alley though.  
**\<sgp\_>** Thanks sarang!  
**\<sgp\_>** Any final comments before we wrap up the meeting?  
**\<sgp\_>** Thanks for joining everyone  
**\<sgp\_>** (skipping 7. open ideas time)  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** thank you!  
**\<msvb-mob>** Thanks sgp\_, good meeting.  
**\<sgp\_>** 8. Confirm next meeting date/time  
**\<sgp\_>** The next community meeting will be in 2 weeks on 9 November at 17:00 UTC. Note a possible regional time change! The next Coffee Chat will be on 16 November at 16:00 UTC, but we may change the format. Stay tuned for more details.  
**\<sgp\_>** 9. Conclusion  
**\<sgp\_>** Thatâ€™s all! Thanks for attending this Monero Community meeting, and we hope to see you on r/MoneroCommunity and #monero-community. Take care, and know that change starts with YOU.  
