---
date: 2020-04-11
title: Logs for the Community Meeting Held on 2020-04-11
tags: [dev diaries, crypto]
author: asymptotically / SamsungGalaxyPlayer
---

# Logs

**\<sgp\_\>** 0. Introduction  
**\<sgp\_\>** We would like to welcome everyone to this Monero Community Workgroup Meeting!  
**\<sgp\_\>** Link to agenda on GitHub: https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/455  
**\<sgp\_\>** Monero Community meetings are a discussion place for anything going on in the Monero Community, including other Monero workgroups. We use meetings to encourage the community to share ideas and provide support.  
**\<sgp\_\>** 1. Greetings  
**\<geonic\>** morning!  
**\<ajs\_\>** hi  
**\<rehrar\>** Hi guiz  
**\<msvb-mob\>** Hello.  
**\<sarang\>** hi  
**\<hyc\>** hey  
**\<sgp\_\>** needbrrrrrrr90  
**\<sgp\_\>** ErCiccione[m]:  
**\<sgp\_\>** selsta  
**\<sgp\_\>** vtnerd  
\* needbrrrrrrr90 yawns  
**\<kinghat[m]\>** o/  
**\<sgp\_\>** binaryFate ArticMine geonic Isthmus jtgrassie M5M400  
**\<sgp\_\>** xmrscott[m]  
**\<sgp\_\>** (trying to get a full house in here for the Monerversary planning later)  
**\<sgp\_\>** 2. Community highlights  
**\<sgp\_\>** See Monero weekly highlights at https://revuo-monero.com  
**\<sgp\_\>** Check out resources at https://communityworkgroup.org. We can use this page to more easily organize Monero Community Workgroup resources going forward. It also has a calendar you can subscribe to for meeting reminders.  
**\<sgp\_\>** Monero Means Money was released yesterday! Please consider renting this film to support indie theaters: https://moneromeans.money  
**\<sgp\_\>** Does anyone have community (non-workgroup) updates to share?  
**\<rehrar\>** Revuo not released yet. Will release today.  
**\<sgp\_\>** We have a huge amount of info to get through for the Moneroversary, so in the interest of time, there's a small rule change.  
**\<sgp\_\>** Please comment if you have a workgroup report by messaging “Workgroup Update: [workgroup name]” any time before part 4 of the meeting, or else your section may be skipped.  
**\<sgp\_\>** 3. CCS updates  
**\<sgp\_\>** Funding required:  
\* sgp\_ ErCiccione: 3 more months part time work on Getmonero.org (36.33/180 XMR) https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/erciccione-website1.html  
**\<sgp\_\>** I didn't mean to make that /me, oops  
**\<sgp\_\>** Ideas (to be discussed):  
**\<sgp\_\>** There is only one new idea, so I will recap to luigi1111 and rehrar about the status of the proposals we discussed two weeks ago. Please comment after if you have any further comments on these.  
**\<sgp\_\>** Mining outreach, Ministo (40 XMR) REJECT/ADJUST https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/-/merge_requests/124  
**\<rehrar\>** A note on the CCS. As you can see nothing has been merged in a while, besides sarang. This is due to the recent volatility, and we will begin merging again soon.  
**\<sgp\_\>** [Monero Aligned] Proposal for 1M5 Integration as Proxy, Brian Taylor (150 XMR) REJECT/ADJUST https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/-/merge_requests/127  
**\<sgp\_\>** Norwegian translation of webplate + footers + nav. Menu, Chris Avis (6 XMR) MOVE TO FR https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/-/merge_requests/129  
**\<sgp\_\>** Monero Debian Package Repository for 2 years, Patrick Schleizer (60 XMR) MOVE TO FR https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/-/merge_requests/130  
**\<rehrar\>** Anyone with an open CCS proposal is encouraged to go and update to current prices.  
**\<sgp\_\>** Any comments on these that is different than my summary?  
\* ErCiccione[m] mostly afk  
**\<sgp\_\>** Updated/new “Persian GUI translation” https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/-/merge_requests/136  
**\<sgp\_\>** I think there are some concerns about the contributor, and that we would feel more comfortable with them opening a CCS after making other contributions first. People were generally negative about their previous proposal  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** Updated means account deleted twice and reposted and has repeatedly spammed us about it on /r/Monero  
**\<hyc\>** that'd earn a hard No from me  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** Idk what's going on with it, but strongly recommend against. I gave misgivings about his future interactions should he get accepted.  
**\<rehrar\>** For an individual like this I would not recommend moving until there is volunteer work. No exceptions.  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** s/gave/have  
**\<monerobux\>** needbrrrrrrr90 meant to say: Idk what's going on with it, but strongly recommend against. I have misgivings about his future interactions should he get accepted.  
**\<sgp\_\>** Any other opinions on this or other CCS items before we move on?  
**\<hyc\>** speaks very poorly of reliability/trustworthiness  
**\<rehrar\>** I have something to discuss that is....core team related. Where would this fit?  
**\<sgp\_\>** is it about CCS things? maybe this could be the Core Team workgorup report  
**\<rehrar\>** Uh. Sure. Not a CCS.  
**\<sgp\_\>** okay  
**\<sgp\_\>** 4. Workgroup report  
**\<sgp\_\>** Monero Research Lab  
**\<sgp\_\>** sarang, go  
**\<sarang\>** Sure  
**\<sarang\>** I have some initial C++ code for Triptych, which is showing good results  
**\<sarang\>** UkoeHB\_ (who might not be here for this meeting) posted their major update to Zero to Monero on getmonero.org  
**\<sgp\_\>** I'm looking to publish a paperback version of that btw with the Mastering Monero team  
**\<sarang\>** And there's still assorted work on CLSAG implementation  
**\<sarang\>** neat  
**\<sarang\>** As usual, weekly research meeting on Wednesday at 17:00 UTC for anyone interested  
**\<selsta\>** I can give a short CLI / GUI update  
**\<sgp\_\>** sarang: anything else?  
**\<sarang\>** Those are the major items  
**\<sgp\_\>** okay, we can move on to selsta  
**\<sgp\_\>** CLI / GUI  
**\<selsta\>** okay, Dandelion is now reviewed, meaning that v0.15.1.0 is almost ready, only a few more merges left and then we can branch  
**\<selsta\>** GUI is getting an auto updater: https://github.com/monero-project/monero-gui/pull/2819  
**\<selsta\>** ok that’s it  
**\<sgp\_\>** thanks  
**\<sgp\_\>** Core Team  
**\<sgp\_\>** go rehrar  
**\<rehrar\>** Ok. Two things from me.  
**\<rehrar\>** 1. The GF transparency report is almost done. This one is taking a bit longer because we're trying to give account for the entirety of the time the GF has been alive. This is a one time thing and then we'll focus on quarters after that or something.  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** \o/  
**\<rehrar\>** Pre-2019 will be just general accounting. Greater focus on 2019 in terms of what went where.  
**\<rehrar\>** Trying to wrangle the memories of people involved for such things.  
**\<rehrar\>** 2. I'd like to solicit feedback on the newly proposed MRL Fund. I'm not going to reveal what's been worked on by me in the background as to it's structure because I want to hear fresh and original ideas not tainted by mine.  
**\<sgp\_\>** Is there an official contact point for comments?  
**\<rehrar\>** If the goal is to ensure a fund, separate from the CCS, that MRL researchers are able to apply and get consistent monthly funding from (at current market value as of that month), what are some requirements that you think the core team should put in place for these researchers in terms of communication, engagement, and other?  
**\<rehrar\>** Me.  
**\<sgp\_\>** I strongly advise some other, clearly stated contact method shared on Reddit  
**\<rehrar\>** But just if anything is on the top of your head that you'd like to see (or NOT see so as not to have unnecessary red tape or burden), please let me know.  
**\<rehrar\>** Sgp this is not going to the general community. It's going to this meeting.  
**\<sgp\_\>** I mean I don't have time now to give all my thoughts here. We need to be planning for the Moneroversary  
**\<rehrar\>** Ok. If that takes priority then that's that.  
**\<rehrar\>** Anyone can send me a message with an idea if they have it.  
**\<sgp\_\>** Ok, I hope this is an initial feedback process and then you will collect feedback from the broader community later more formally/clearly  
**\<sgp\_\>** Given the silence I'm going to move on to the main topic of this meeting: Moneroversary planning  
**\<sgp\_\>** 5. Moneroversary  
**\<sgp\_\>** We need to discuss the events for the Moneroversary next Saturday. It will be 6 years since Monero was released! We need to celebrate!  
**\<sgp\_\>** https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/438  
**\<hyc\>** ... also right around my birthday, coincidentally ;) I'll be doubly celebrating  
**\<sgp\_\>** cool cool  
**\<sgp\_\>** goals for this meeting is to get a rough sketch of activities, games, times, and participants  
**\<sgp\_\>** some event ideas are Coffee Chat, Happy Hour, puzzles, Monero spend activity, and a meme competition  
**\<sgp\_\>** but maybe it's first best to hear when people are available next Saturday  
**\<sgp\_\>** (please jump in and comment your availability or unavailability)  
**\<hyc\>** Saturday looks open for me  
**\<netrik182[m]\>** For me too  
**\<sgp\_\>** geonic ajs msvb-mob needbrrrrrrr90 ErCiccione[m] vtnerd binaryFate rehrar Isthmus jtgrassie M5M400 xmrscott[m] when are you free next Saturday?  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** Answer, yes  
**\<sgp\_\>** also sarang  
**\<rehrar\>** I'll be licking bus handles at that time so it may be a no for me.  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** Dude let's make a meetup of it Diego  
**\<geonic\>** same time  
**\<rehrar\>** But fr, sure. I'm good all day.  
**\<sarang\>** I should be available  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** I hope the IRC room is big enough that we can all stay 6' from each other  
**\<ajs\_\>** I'm free  
**\<rehrar\>** I can hang in the VR room all day as well as take part in other things.  
**\<sgp\_\>** good, now we have some people. Please contact others outside of this meeting to remind them. I'll make a Reddit post later today  
**\<sgp\_\>** Thoughts on these events: Coffee Chat, VR Happy Hour, meme competition  
**\<msvb-mob\>** Saturday normal UTC hours, like 10-20 for me.  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** Meme competition?  
**\<sgp\_\>** I think it would be cool to give people a meme template and 10 minutes to make the best Monero-related meme they can  
**\<sgp\_\>** 4 people competing in a round or so  
**\<sarang\>** nice  
**\<sgp\_\>** basically Drawful (which we can also play) but meme related  
**\<sarang\>** Drawful is super fun  
**\<sgp\_\>** I have Drawful and Jackbox 4  
**\<rehrar\>** CCS to buy all the jackboxs  
**\<sgp\_\>** lol  
**\<sgp\_\>** Jackbox gets old no matter the version  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** I mean it's a party game  
**\<sgp\_\>** needbrrrrrrr90: can you test Secret Hitler and CAH to see if that would work with a livestream?  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** Sure let's do it today  
**\<sgp\_\>** are there any puzzles or community challenges we can do? people solve problems like they did at defcon, though they are short/easy  
**\<sgp\_\>** Is that mostly dependent on dsc_'s availability?  
**\<sgp\_\>** we did Kahoot trivia last year. I think we could do that again  
**\<sgp\_\>** we did a crossword last year https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MqyU5IX4wTo  
**\<monerobux\>** [ Monero Puzzle w/needmoney90 - 5th Moneroversary 2019 - YouTube ] - www.youtube.com  
**\<sgp\_\>** Is there anything we should do on a more serious note? Dedicated Q&A?  
**\<sgp\_\>** I need your creative juices to be flowing people!  
**\<sgp\_\>** Else I'm just going to make a program and you're going to like it lol  
**\<sgp\_\>** okay, I will make and share a preliminary schedule today. I would like it to be effectively finalized by Monday so we can help promote the event  
**\<sgp\_\>** rehrar: should I reuse your last year's Moneroversary materials, or is a minor refresh needed?  
**\<sgp\_\>** I'm happy to reuse them since they are good  
**\<rehrar\>** You tell me.  
**\<sgp\_\>** okay, I'll reuse them  
**\<rehrar\>** If you want refresh, I can do it this week.  
**\<rehrar\>** Ok.  
**\<sarang\>** How will you be making the schedule? Is it collaborative?  
**\<sgp\_\>** sarang: I'm just going to put ideas on paper and then we can talk about how to change/reschedule  
**\<sgp\_\>** My guess is that people want something on paper to review  
**\<sarang\>** roger  
**\<sgp\_\>** Thoughts on 15-30 minute themed Q&A sessions or update sessions?  
**\<sarang\>** How might that work?  
**\<sgp\_\>** Basically have a few mins set aside to talk about a specific topic, eg: MRL, dev, compliance, adoption  
**\<sarang\>** Moderated?  
**\<sgp\_\>** could be  
**\<sgp\_\>** that would probably be better  
**\<sgp\_\>** Final thoughts on the Moneroversary? Else I'll get working and wrap this meeting up  
**\<sgp\_\>** 6. Confirm next meeting date/time  
**\<sgp\_\>** The next community meeting will be in 2 weeks on 25 April at 17:00 UTC.  
**\<sgp\_\>** The Moneroversary is on Saturday April 18 https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/438  
**\<sgp\_\>** 7. Conclusion  
**\<sgp\_\>** Please remember rehrar if you have comments about the Core Team fund  
**\<sgp\_\>** sorry, MRL fund  
**\<hyc\>** MRL fund  
**\<sgp\_\>** That’s all! Thanks for attending this Monero Community meeting, and we hope to see you on r/MoneroCommunity and #monero-community. Take care, STAY SAFE AND ISOLATED, and know that change starts with YOU.  
