---
date: 2020-02-15
title: Logs for the Community Meeting Held on 2020-02-15
tags: [dev diaries, crypto]
author: asymptotically / rehrar
---

# Logs

**\<rehrar\>** 0. Introduction  
**\<rehrar\>** Hello and welcome to the Community Workgroup Gameshow (CWG)! I'm your host, Diego Salazar, and we've got a great show planned for you all tonight.  
**\<rehrar\>** Let's meet our contestants.  
**\<rehrar\>** 1. Greetings  
**\<intj440\>** Hi  
**\<jwinterm\>** buen sabado todos  
**\<selsta\>** hi  
**\<i\_a\>** ahoy  
**\<rottensox\>** salutations.  
**\<nioc\>** i'm napping  
**\<rottensox\>** where's needmonero90.  
**\<rehrar\>** Got us a lively group, don't we? Let's see how they handle the challenges to come.  
**\<rehrar\>** 2. Community highlights  
\* needmonero90 sighs  
**\<ajs\>** i'll take geography for 500 rehrar  
**\<rehrar\>** All points go to Diego who writes the Revuo Monero which you can see at https://revuo-monero.com  
**\<rehrar\>** We also released the July 1, 2019 - December 31, 2019 periodical  
**\<rehrar\>** Does anyone have anything in particular they want to highlight about this past couple of weeks?  
**\<needmonero90\>** price go up  
**\<jwinterm\>** cake wallet has been doing a nice job of getting people with breasts to post images of themselves wearing cake wallet t-shirts on tweeter  
**\<rottensox\>** lol.  
**\<jwinterm\>** other than that I got nothing  
**\<rehrar\>** ...when in the land of the nerds  
**\<endogenic\>** i've been working on something very exciting  
**\<endogenic\>** i'm only going to tell rehrar about it  
**\<rehrar\>** endogenic: want to share?  
**\<rottensox\>** boo!  
**\<endogenic\>** because i'm only friends with him  
**\<rottensox\>** double boo!  
**\<dandums\>** 43770  
**\<rehrar\>** ooooh, bonus points for endogenic  
**\<endogenic\>** yessss  
**\<rehrar\>** 3. CCS updates  
**\<endogenic\>** haha i'll share real soon rottensox  
**\<rehrar\>** We got a few things in funding. Fund Xiphon plz  
**\<rehrar\>** Xiphon is the bees knees and does great work. selsta will now give a short speech/poem about Xiphon's contributions.  
**\<endogenic\>** been hanging with some crytocurrency groups in SF as well. we may see some movement  
**\<selsta\>** he is doing important GUI work :P  
**\<rehrar\>** clap clap  
**\<selsta\>** like improving stability, speed, etc.  
**\<rehrar\>** truly a man with a mastery of words. Thank you selsta.  
**\<selsta\>** sorry Iâ€™m currently eating :P  
**\<rottensox\>** lol.  
**\<rehrar\>** vtnerd? sarang? suraeNoether? anybody here with a report on CCS activities?  
**\<sarang\>** More math, more data, more fun  
**\<sarang\>** Using chain data to get better comparisons of next-gen tx protocols, etc.  
**\<rehrar\>** Sarang Noether, ladies and gentlemen  
**\<endogenic\>** i like sarang  
**\<sarang\>** Aw shucks  
**\<sarang\>** A few other assorted code updates, and so on  
**\<rehrar\>** thank you. Any other CCS updates?  
**\<endogenic\>** in other news mymonero continues not to ask the community for money  
**\<endogenic\>** ðŸ˜‚  
**\<rehrar\>** 4. Workgroup reports  
**\<rehrar\>** 4a. Daemon/CLI scrubs  
**\<rehrar\>** anyone here from them that can say what you've been up to? merged things? pr'd things?  
**\<rehrar\>** 4b. Localization  
**\<rehrar\>** ErCiccione[m]? you around?  
**\<rehrar\>** lol. Zero points for everyone.  
**\<rehrar\>** I do know they now have Weblate working with the website, so translate.getmonero.org for that stuffs  
**\<rehrar\>** c. GUI workgroup  
**\<rehrar\>** selsta: what's the word?  
**\<selsta\>** see https://github.com/monero-project/monero-gui/pulls?utf8=âœ“&q=is%3Apr for recent activity  
**\<rehrar\>** what an informative meeting this is so far  
**\<rottensox\>** lol.  
**\<endogenic\>** dont mean to jump in but have to run. check out my upcoming monerotalk interview - i made some technical announcements  
**\<rehrar\>** aight cya  
**\<selsta\>** when is it coming out  
**\<endogenic\>** like stuff we've been workin on a long time  
**\<selsta\>** the interview  
**\<endogenic\>** ah i dunno. it was about a week aho  
**\<endogenic\>** ago  
**\<selsta\>** ok so soon :P  
**\<endogenic\>** y'all remember when adding wallets to an app took 6 mos?  
**\<endogenic\>** like jaxx? haha  
**\<endogenic\>** well that's 1 day now  
**\<endogenic\>** tbh i actually already open sourced some stuff quietly  
**\<endogenic\>** but this is not the really exciting upcomign thing  
**\<endogenic\>** time to go tell diego in private  
**\<endogenic\>** haha  
**\<selsta\>** are you going to announce it in the interview?  
**\<selsta\>** or still secret :P  
**\<rehrar\>** 4d. Outreach workgroup  
**\<rehrar\>** I don't think any of them piped up either  
**\<needmonero90\>** :(  
**\<rehrar\>** Thunderosa, xmrhaelan?  
**\<rehrar\>** e. Monero Research Lab  
**\<endogenic\>** selsta heya it's not announced in the interview no  
**\<rehrar\>** sarang kinda already did it.  
**\<sarang\>** :)  
**\<rehrar\>** I jumped the gun. We blazing through this meeting.  
**\<rehrar\>** let's get us all home  
**\<rehrar\>** f. Website workgroup  
**\<rehrar\>** ErCiccione[m]: isn't here so we can skip this one too  
**\<rehrar\>** woot. The best kinds of meetings.  
**\<needmonero90\>** efficient meeting  
**\<shillo\>** I have nothing useful to add besides mentioning that rehrar is doing a great job running this meeting even though people are slow to respond. If he waits long enough I'm sure everything will be covered in due time  
**\<rehrar\>** 5. Open ideas time  
**\<rehrar\>** 5a. Moneroversary.  
**\<rehrar\>** We doing anything? Party? Who's bringing the beer?  
**\<endogenic\>** i'ma chat w sgp about a ton of ideas i have for that  
**\<rehrar\>** perfect. in fact, let's take all discussion offline for efficiency sake  
**\<rehrar\>** next meeting will be held over PMs  
**\<endogenic\>** hahaha  
**\<endogenic\>** it's a private meeting  
**\<rehrar\>** Any of you bozos have any ideas for open ideas time?  
**\<rehrar\>** I have something if nobody else does.  
**\<endogenic\>** you go first  
**\<rehrar\>** There was some discussion and a twitter thread about some individuals wishing Defcon villages would go back to their roots of being more hands-on rather than talk focused.  
**\<rehrar\>** Now Defcon is still a ways away, but if they have us back again, I'd like to see our village go in that direction.  
**\<rehrar\>** Less talks. WAAAAY less talks. In fact, most of the talks can be the same talk given multiple times a day for people that can't make other times. "What is Monero?" given by different people or whatever.  
**\<rehrar\>** More workshops. How to use the wallet. How to secure your seed. How to use a hardware wallet.  
**\<dEBRUYNE\>** Can we allocate some time to discuss the addition of 'Reasonably' on the website?  
**\<rehrar\>** dEBRUYNE: sure  
**\<rottensox\>** how to lose your private key in a boating accident.  
**\<rehrar\>** That's basically it from me. More discussions will develop in #monero-defcon when it's time, I think.  
**\<rehrar\>** dEBRUYNE: take it away  
**\<rehrar\>** lol, ok shall I start the discussion then?  
**\<dEBRUYNE\>** Sorry, didn't see the ping  
**\<dEBRUYNE\>** Anyway, I think, similar to the guy that posted on reddit, that we shouldn't add an adjective on the website, regardless of which it is  
**\<dEBRUYNE\>** Simply 'private' is sufficient. In my opinion, it does not provide a privacy guarantee  
**\<dEBRUYNE\>** Furthermore, we can add a disclaimer link that provides elaboration  
**\<dEBRUYNE\>** The optics of 'reasonably' are quite bad in my opinion and it leaves a lot of new people guessing what it might entail  
**\<intj440\>** +1  
**\<nioc\>** dEBRUYNE: agree  
**\<rehrar\>** We can also remove the "A" and just end up with "Private Digital Currency"  
**\<rehrar\>** which, surprise is what was there to begin with :D  
**\<jwinterm\>** a somewhat private with several important caveats that users should be aware of digital currency  
**\<jwinterm\>** has a nice ring to it  
**\<rehrar\>** any other opinions? differing or otherwise?  
**\<rottensox\>** jwinterm: tl;dr.  
**\<dEBRUYNE\>** What would be the point of removing 'A' rehrar?  
**\<rottensox\>** private digital currency is simple and effective. don't look for the 5th leg in the cat.  
**\<dEBRUYNE\>** Or is my sarcasm detector broken here :p  
**\<rehrar\>** not sarcasm, what's the point of keeping it?  
**\<jwinterm\>** 'A' is extraneous  
**\<shillo\>** I'd remove the "A"  
**\<rehrar\>** it's implied, yes  
**\<rehrar\>** unless.....  
**\<rehrar\>** if we want an article  
**\<jwinterm\>** I agree an article is unnecessary  
**\<rehrar\>** THE private digital currency  
**\<jwinterm\>** unless you use 'The'  
**\<rehrar\>** ^  
**\<jwinterm\>** rehrar and I are actually the same person  
**\<rottensox\>** impossible.  
**\<rehrar\>** if jwinterm does squats, then it's literally true  
**\<jwinterm\>** nah I'm fat and lazy  
**\<rehrar\>** alright, so the present group is pretty much in agreement to remove "reasonably"  
**\<rehrar\>** any other points of discussion or ideas?  
**\<rehrar\>** if not, next meeting 29th. Same time.j  
**\<SerHack\>** Yes, rehrar! I've submitted my third CCS for Monero integrations  
**\<SerHack\>** https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/merge\_requests/125  
**\<sarang\>** Phrasings like "private" and "untraceable" are not useful without a lot of context  
**\<rehrar\>** ah, cool, go comment on that then everyone  
**\<rehrar\>** remove private leaves "Digital Currency"  
**\<SerHack\>** There you may find all the information about my CCS. If you have any question, or any additional feature request, please leave a comment!  
**\<dEBRUYNE\>** sarang: Hence my suggestion to add a direct link to a disclaimer page  
**\<rehrar\>** Like some people say, probably better for it to be a link that takes to qualifications  
**\<rehrar\>** ye  
**\<sarang\>** It's not just the tagline... the homepage also says matter-of-fact phrasings like "Monero is private" and "Monero is untraceable"  
**\<sarang\>** There's nuance and use cases etc. that affect those things  
**\<rehrar\>** every word should be a link to a disclaimer  
**\<rehrar\>** although I think we should move untraceable  
**\<shillo\>** just hire a lawyer to decide how it should be phrased  
**\<rehrar\>** I honestly think at some point we need to do a deep rethink of Monero's branding  
**\<rehrar\>** I'm sure there's a good, snappy way to convey the message of Monero without a. overhyping us, b. underselling what makes us great  
**\<rehrar\>** but it needs work, and a couple of tweaks isn't going to do it  
**\<nioc\>** shillo: lol  
**\<wampum\>** womanero  
**\<rehrar\>** alright, meeting adjourned  
