---
date: 2020-06-20
title: Logs for the Community Meeting Held on 2020-06-20
tags: [dev diaries, crypto]
author: asymptotically / sgp_
---

# Logs

**\<sgp\_\>** 0. Introduction  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** If I end up afk just ping me repeatedly and my phone will buzz  
**\<endogenic\>** o hi  
**\<sgp\_\>** We would like to welcome everyone to this Monero Community Workgroup Meeting!  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** And I'll wake up  
**\<binaryFate\>** hello  
**\<endogenic\>** needbrrrrrrr90:  
**\<sgp\_\>** Link to agenda on GitHub: https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/475  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** Hi!  
**\<sgp\_\>** Monero Community meetings are a discussion place for anything going on in the Monero Community, including other Monero workgroups. We use meetings to encourage the community to share ideas and provide support.  
**\<sgp\_\>** 1. Greetings  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** Sup  
**\<sarang\>** Hello  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** Osu~  
**\<endogenic\>** osssssu  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** Missed the last two meetings because I overslept and 10am is too early  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** Glad to be here :D  
**\<rehrar\>** hi  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** Osu is great  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** Everyone dead :(  
**\<endogenic\>** ossu  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** Should we ping  
**\<midipoet\>** hello  
**\<endogenic\>** needbrrrrrrr90:  
**\<sgp\_\>** thanks everyone for being here!  
**\<sgp\_\>** 2. Community highlights  
**\<sgp\_\>** See Monero weekly highlights at https://revuo-monero.com  
**\<sgp\_\>** Check out resources at https://communityworkgroup.org. It also has a calendar you can subscribe to for meeting reminders.  
**\<sgp\_\>** asymptotically was an absolute champ and uploaded meeting logs for the past 6+ months to the getmonero.org website!  
\<3  
**\<sgp\_\>** ErCiccione, fort3hlulz, xmrhaelan, geonic, wowario, and others have been sharing information about Monero with the #DidYouKnowMonero hashtag. Please participate if you are on Twitter https://twitter.com/search?q=%23DidYouKnowMonero  
**\<sgp\_\>** Does anyone have community (non-workgroup) updates to share?  
**\<rehrar\>** question regarding that. This week there wasn't much news. :( anybody have news to share?  
**\<rehrar\>** Revuo for this past week not out yet. I'll put it out now. But there was only one news item (Iranian exchange)  
**\<msvb-web\>** Hello everyone.  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** Hey Michael  
**\<rehrar\>** so we did draw a Monero fox to compensate, but if anyone had another news item please let me know  
**\<ajs-mob\>** hi  
**\<sgp\_\>** rehrar: when will your Mainnet talk be public?  
**\<rehrar\>** OH! Yeah! It is public, no?  
**\<rehrar\>** or was the link I sent unlisted?  
**\<sgp\_\>** the link you sent me was unlisted  
**\<rehrar\>** oof, then idk  
**\<sgp\_\>** did they get back to you on formatting?  
**\<rehrar\>** no. I emailed. No response.  
**\<rehrar\>** I'll email again.  
**\<binaryFate\>** rehrar: website got netlify, maybe worth a news  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** Sorry i'm late but i'm here  
**\<rehrar\>** binaryFate: so any changes made are automatically pushed?  
**\<binaryFate\>** no, but when people make a PR, a version of the website with that PR is automatically built  
**\<sgp\_\>** rehrar: is the CLSAG audit being funded already represented?  
**\<binaryFate\>** and linked from PR on github  
**\<needbrrrrrrr90\>** That's neat  
**\<rehrar\>** I haven't in the past used a proposal being funded as a news item, but I guess I can  
**\<binaryFate\>** ErCiccione[m] knows details and took care of most of the netlify stuff  
**\<rehrar\>** cool  
**\<rehrar\>** ok  
**\<sgp\_\>** haha idk, just trying to offer suggestions  
**\<rehrar\>** want to see the fox?  
**\<fort3hlulz\>** Netlify helps with docs updates, since we'll get to see a build with it correct?  
**\<sgp\_\>** this workgroup has a Twitter, maybe shill that  
**\<rehrar\>** it's cute  
**\<sgp\_\>** yeah of course  
**\<fort3hlulz\>** Rehrar it would be great to share about the twitter campaign in there too IMO  
**\<rehrar\>** https://usercontent.irccloud-cdn.com/file/07BIwpc4/monerofox-sticker.png  
**\<sarang\>** aww  
**\<sgp\_\>** that's soooooooo cute!  
**\<fort3hlulz\>** Hahaha  
**\<midipoet\>** remind me of Mozilla. Maybe that's the idea though  
**\<fort3hlulz\>** Well done  
**\<sgp\_\>** I want a shirt  
**\<binaryFate\>** cuty  
**\<sgp\_\>** and a blanket  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** I can give a quick update about what netlify is later when it's time to give updates about the website  
**\<sgp\_\>** ErCiccione[m]: ty :)  
**\<fort3hlulz\>** Could you also post about it in Reddit @erciccione?  
**\<netrik182[m]\>** hi sgp\_. sorry for being late  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** Does it worth to make a dedicated post? i was thinking of including it in my usual monthly (more or less) update  
**\<sgp\_\>** I agree with that mostly  
**\<sgp\_\>** anything else on this section?  
**\<sgp\_\>** 4. Workgroup report  
**\<sgp\_\>** is selsta here?  
**\<sgp\_\>** a. Daemon/CLI/GUI workgroup  
**\<selsta\>** yep for a short update at least  
**\<sgp\_\>** sweet :)  
**\<selsta\>** we are preparing v0.16.0.1 with small bug fixes  
**\<selsta\>** also mooo managed to fix a super rare bug that has existed for ages  
**\<selsta\>** (difficulty drift bug)  
**\<rehrar\>** moneromooo is kinda bae  
**\<selsta\>** apart from that nothing major  
**\<sgp\_\>** I accidentally skipped the CCS section, so that will be after the workgroup updates  
**\<msvb-lab\>** rehrar: What is 'bae'?  
**\<rehrar\>** slang for 'baby'. It means he's awesome.  
**\<sgp\_\>** thanks selsta  
**\<sgp\_\>** b. Localization workgroup  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** We have a lot of suggested strings on Weblate that need to be reviewed. So basically if you can, go on https://translate.getmonero.org and review the strigns people suggested  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** It's only a matter of giving an upvote of a downvote  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** it's a pity to see so many suggestions and lack of reviewers  
**\<fort3hlulz\>** Do you normally need English reviews?  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** some languages  are compltely translated (for example norwegian), but need a reviewer to  
**\<fort3hlulz\>** Or only other translations?  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** Only other languages. If we want to change english strings we have to do it directly on the repo, whatever it is  
**\<fort3hlulz\>** Ah, ok.  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** forgot to complete the sentence earlier: "we need a reviewer to confirm and review the translations"  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** if anybody needs help, support or have question, #monero-translations is the place to go  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** That's it. Review review review :)  
**\<sgp\_\>** c. Website workgroup  
**\<sgp\_\>** keep going :p  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** :P  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** so, as binaryfate said, now we have a netlify integration  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** which means that once a PR is opened, Netlify will build it and show a preview of how the website will look like  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** then a bot will comment under the PR with a link to the preview  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** you can see it working here: https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/pull/1027  
**\<sarang\>** What are the "neutral checks" on the CI?  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** I think that's supr useful because allow peopel to immediately see how the changes will look like and will allow people without a build environment for the website to have an overview of the changes  
**\<fort3hlulz\>** That's pretty awesome!  
**\<fort3hlulz\>** Super important to get more docs/site contributions.  
**\<fort3hlulz\>** Now I need to actually dig into the docs...  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** sarang: neutral checks?  
**\<sarang\>** The CI shows some checks labeled "neutral"  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** fort3hlulz: yes that was my main goal: getting more people to take a look at the website repo :)  
**\<sarang\>** Header rules, etc.  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** ooh, ok, i don't see the neutral, but those are just some netlify standard checks. I deactivated most of them to have a superquick buld (2-3 minutes) and we don't need them anyway  
**\<sarang\>** Got it  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** What we car about it's mostly only the preview  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** \*care  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** can be optimized a bit, especially because we have limited build time (300 minutes)  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** so we can remove builds for stuff we don't care about, like the readme  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** i will look into it in the future. For now it's working exactly as it should  
**\<fort3hlulz\>** Per month? Or what period?  
**\<binaryFate\>** we could ask if they want to be listed as sponsor for giving us higher tier for free. That seems pretty useful and they would get some good noise from monero people on twitter etc  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** per month, yes  
**\<fort3hlulz\>** Good idea @binaryFate  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** binaryFate: that's a good idea  
**\<fort3hlulz\>** Or if not, we could do a CCS for it, would expect it to be funded.  
**\<sarang\>** What would the cost be?  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** yeah, the next tired is supercheap anyway  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** looking that up  
**\<binaryFate\>** 45$/month  
**\<selsta\>** $7/500 minutes build minutes  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** not supercheap but not expensive: $45 a month  
**\<rehrar\>** Ok. I'll contact then.  
**\<selsta\>** we donâ€™t need the next tier if we only use it for deploy  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** https://www.netlify.com/pricing/  
**\<selsta\>** for preview\*  
**\<rehrar\>** selsta but we can have it!!!  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** A "pro" plan would also allow us to add people to the team. It's not supr important, but would allow me to have aces to the settings  
**\<binaryFate\>** right now we're good for ~100 PR / month  
**\<binaryFate\>** probably ok?  
**\<selsta\>** Seems okay for now.  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** yeah  calculated at the time and we should be good, with even some extra time  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** iiirc we should be able to manage double the PR volume we currently have  
**\<sgp\_\>** cool  
**\<sgp\_\>** anything else?  
**\<sgp\_\>** I don't think anyone is here from the outreach workgroup, so we can skip that section  
**\<sgp\_\>** e. Monero Research Lab  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** Since we are at it, i want to remind that the PR which changes the homepage is still open and waiting for reviews  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/pull/948  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** i will force push it to trigger the netlify preview  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** that's it  
**\<sgp\_\>** thanks :)  
**\<sgp\_\>** sarang, do you have a quick update?  
**\<sarang\>** I did a bunch of analysis work on transaction history, transaction types, and spend patterns in support of output selection updates  
**\<sarang\>** and have been updating the CLSAG preprint in response to audit draft results  
**\<sarang\>** We can use the results of the analysis work to better influence future decisions on building transactions safely  
**\<sgp\_\>** let's get those coinbase-only rings :p  
**\<sarang\>** The analysis suggests that coinbase spend patterns (in terms of age) don't differ from non-coinbase, which is an interesting and somewhat unexpected result  
**\<sarang\>** I also know that Isthmus and friends have been working on their post-quantum research  
**\<sarang\>** but I don't want to speak for them  
**\<sgp\_\>** thanks, anything else?  
**\<sarang\>** Nothing major that isn't boring math =p  
**\<sgp\_\>** f. Monero Defcon Village  
**\<sgp\_\>** msvb-lab  
**\<msvb-lab\>** Hello, thanks sgp.  
**\<msvb-lab\>** Those of us who have attended all the Monero Village (at #monero-defcon channel) meetings, can please decide if you want special privileges on the Defon Discord server.  
**\<msvb-lab\>** If you do, please:  
**\<msvb-lab\>**  #1 Create a Discord account, #2 Navigate https://discord.gg/defcon, #3 Find me 'Michael' on the 'linecon' channel of the Defcon Discord server. #4 Say hello to me, please.  
**\<msvb-lab\>** That helps me find your unique ID, and that is what Defcon Goons need to secure your place in the Monero Village channel of the Defcon Discord server.  
**\<rehrar\>** Ok. I will do that. Thanks.  
**\<msvb-lab\>** Any questions about that?  
**\<sgp\_\>** He is Michael#7293  
**\<sgp\_\>** no questions  
**\<msvb-lab\>** sgp: Michael#7293 is a clonable id, any imposter can take that. The real ID requires green magic to obtain, and is 18 numbers long.  
**\<msvb-lab\>** Okay, just please all village staff who want privileges try to help by doing this in the next days. I'll try to pay attention in EU timezones to the channel.  
**\<sgp\_\>** any other Defcon updates?  
**\<msvb-lab\>** Or find out your real 18 digit ID and send me email michaelâŠ™go  
**\<msvb-lab\>** sgp: Only updates about the intervillage electronic badge, but it takes too long to report.  
**\<msvb-lab\>** So it might be best to go to the next agenda topic sgp? Or no?  
**\<sgp\_\>** only things that are relevant for a community meeting I guess. Defcon has its own meetings too obviously  
**\<sgp\_\>** okay, moving on then  
**\<sgp\_\>** 3. CCS updates  
**\<sgp\_\>** The CLSAG Audit funds transfer to OSTIF has occurred without unforeseen issues. OSTIF converted ~172 XMR to USD. The excess XMR were donated to the Monero General Fund.  
**\<sgp\_\>** Funding required:  
**\<sgp\_\>** Sarang: research funding for 2020 Q3 (487.73 / 518 XMR) https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/sarang-2020-q3.html  
**\<sgp\_\>** Defcon equipment storage for one year (6 / 13 XMR) https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/defcon-storage.html  
**\<sgp\_\>** Ideas (to be discussed):  
**\<sgp\_\>** ErCiccione: 3 more months part time work on Getmonero.org (July-Sept) (132 XMR) https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/-/merge\_requests/153  
**\<sgp\_\>** approved, next :p  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** ðŸ˜› I'm here for any question  
**\<sgp\_\>** people have 5 seconds to add an objection, else I'm assuming unanimous approval  
**\<rehrar\>** Ye  
**\<sgp\_\>** ok, done with CCS stuff  
**\<sgp\_\>** 5. Open ideas time  
**\<sgp\_\>** Itâ€™s open ideas time. Whatâ€™s something we should be doing better?  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** Superquickly before the next point, i forgot to post the link to my reddit post with the recent updates to the website: https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/h86mof/getmoneroorg\_updated\_1\_new\_user\_guide\_1/  
**\<monerobux\>** [REDDIT] GetMonero.org updated: 1 new user guide, 1 Moneropedia entry and 1 user guide rewritten, 1 new FAQ, 'Reasonably' removed from the header and more (self.Monero) | 42 points (95.0%) | 12 comments | Posted by ErCiccione | Created at 2020-06-13 - 12:28:45  
**\<midipoet\>** ErCiccione[m]: just curious, what does "triaging" mean in the context of websites? I only have ever heard it being used in the field of medicine...  
**\<msvb-lab\>** Not really an open idea, but I'm still confused if there is a migration plan from Gitlab, Github, standalone, cloud, or back and forth.  
**\<sgp\_\>** most stuff will stay on Github  
**\<sarang\>** Sounds like CCS stuff is intending to stay on GitLab  
**\<sgp\_\>** the CCS stuff will stay on gitlab  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** midipoet: It means that when an issue is open, i assign it a label and determine how important it is (to define how quick we need to work on it)  
**\<midipoet\>** ErCiccione[m]: makes sense. Thanks  
**\<msvb-lab\>** sgp sarang: Shoulnd't we add Bitbucket and maybe get a fourth or fifth server so we don't seem too consistent?  
**\<msvb-lab\>** That was a joke.  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** midipoet: it's a fancy ways to say "i keep track of what issues are open and what we have to do with them" :)  
**\<midipoet\>** ErCiccione[m]: i always approve of a bit of fancyness here and there  
**\<ErCiccione[m]\>** ðŸ˜›  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** As a treat  
**\<sgp\_\>** looks like not many people had fancy ideas, and that's time :)  
**\<sgp\_\>** 6. Confirm next meeting date/time  
**\<sgp\_\>** The community meeting on the 4th of July is CANCELLED. The next community meeting will be in 4 weeks on the 18th of July.  
**\<sarang\>** Fancy idea: support key-based pushes on GitLab :D  
**\<sarang\>** (I know this is apparently some cloudflare thing)  
**\<sgp\_\>** The next Coffee Chat is on Saturday 27 June at 17:00 UTC. Sadly, I will need to miss this one again. rehrar, can you moderate?  
**\<msvb-lab\>** Great meeting sgp, thank you very much for moderating it.  
**\<rehrar\>** Ye  
**\<sarang\>** cheers  
**\<sgp\_\>** thank you, apologies everyone  
**\<sgp\_\>** Conclusion  
**\<sgp\_\>** Thatâ€™s all! Thanks for attending this Monero Community meeting, and we hope to see you on r/MoneroCommunity and #monero-community. Take care, STAY SAFE AND ISOLATED, and know that change starts with YOU.  
