---
date: 2020-06-06
title: Logs for the Community Meeting Held on 2020-06-06
tags: [dev diaries, crypto]
author: asymptotically / sgp_
---

# Logs

**\<sgp\_\>** 0. Introduction  
**\<sgp\_\>** We would like to welcome everyone to this Monero Community Workgroup Meeting!  
**\<sgp\_\>** Link to agenda on GitHub: https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/471  
**\<sgp\_\>** Monero Community meetings are a discussion place for anything going on in the Monero Community, including other Monero workgroups. We use meetings to encourage the community to share ideas and provide support.  
**\<sgp\_\>** 1. Greetings  
**\<ErCiccione\>** Hi folks  
**\<msvb-mob\>** Hello.  
**\<kinghat[m]\>** o/  
**\<binaryFate\>** hello!  
**\<sgp\_\>** ping needbrrrrrrr90 sarang  
**\<sarang\>** Hi  
**\<deedledea\>** Hi!  
**\<sgp\_\>** hello everyone :)  
**\<sgp\_\>** 2. Community highlights  
**\<sgp\_\>** See Monero weekly highlights at https://revuo-monero.com  
**\<sgp\_\>** Check out resources at https://communityworkgroup.org. It also has a calendar you can subscribe to for meeting reminders.  
**\<sgp\_\>** We now have a Twitter! https://twitter.com/xmrcommunity  
**\<sgp\_\>** If we have time during open ideas time, please comment on what you want to use it for.  
**\<sgp\_\>** Diego spoke about Monero at the Messari‚Äôs Mainnet 2020 conference. Hopefully they eventually distribute a recording.  
**\<sgp\_\>** Does anyone have community (non-workgroup) updates to share?  
**\<sgp\_\>** 3. CCS updates  
**\<sgp\_\>** Funding required:  
**\<sgp\_\>** Norwegian translation of webplate, footers, nav. Menu (1.16 / 6 XMR) https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/Norwegian\_translation\_core.html  
**\<sgp\_\>** Research post-quantum strategies for Monero (550.06 / 576 XMR) https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/research-post-quantum-monero.html  
**\<sgp\_\>** Ideas (to be discussed):  
**\<sgp\_\>** Swedish cli wallet (3 XMR) https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/-/merge\_requests/147  
**\<sgp\_\>** dEBRUYNE and ErCiccione[m] commented on Reddit: https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/gtjd6g/ccs\_proposal\_lets\_add\_support\_for\_swedish\_in\_to/  
**\<monerobux\>** [REDDIT] [CCS Proposal] Lets add support for swedish in to monero cli wallet (self.Monero) | 21 points (82.0%) | 5 comments | Posted by writesofrust | Created at 2020-05-30 - 18:43:13  
**\<sgp\_\>** no comments on this one?  
**\<binaryFate\>** I don't see much value either, but don't see a reason not to pass it on to funding required  
**\<binaryFate\>** donors can decide  
**\<binaryFate\>** 3 XMR is very small, maybe it is a good test run of the CCS system by that person if nothing else  
**\<sgp\_\>** is the gui and website already translated?  
**\<ErCiccione\>** Not a big fan of that proposal. We don't even know about past experiences as translator and the proposal itself seems quite lazily written  
**\<ErCiccione\>** let me check that  
**\<sgp\_\>** if they have no past contributions, I think that's a reason to not advance  
**\<ErCiccione\>** We don't have the website in swedish. We have the GUI, which is almost fully translated  
**\<ErCiccione\>** i'm fine with people not having past experience with monero if they show some credentials  
**\<sgp\_\>** did they show any?  
**\<ErCiccione\>** To my knowledge, no.  
**\<ErCiccione\>** but we didn't ask either  
**\<sgp\_\>** I guess the proposal is on hold then until that is resolved  
**\<sgp\_\>** final comments on this one?  
**\<sgp\_\>** second one:  
**\<sgp\_\>** Sarang: research funding for 2020 Q3 (492 XMR) https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/-/merge\_requests/148  
**\<sarang\>** I'll revisit the amount prior to opening (if this is decided)  
**\<sgp\_\>** I highly doubt anyone will comment against this one  
**\<binaryFate\>** go go go!!!  
**\<sgp\_\>** indeed  
**\<sarang\>** Happy to take questions here or as CCS comments  
**\<ErCiccione\>** I already left a thumb up on the MR  
**\<sgp\_\>** 7 thumbs up now  
**\<sgp\_\>** I think we can proceed since this obviously has universal support  
**\<sarang\>** I'll check on the amount first  
**\<sgp\_\>** of course  
**\<sarang\>** So please don't merge just yet  
**\<binaryFate\>** sarang did you discuss with luigi1111 about the proposed "stable USD amount" buffer?  
**\<sarang\>** It was briefly mentioned, but not really in any more detail  
**\<binaryFate\>** Let's discuss and finalize decision before you adapt amount  
**\<sarang\>** ok  
**\<binaryFate\>** (decision might be not to use it, no pressure!)  
**\<sgp\_\>** CLSAG Audit with Teserakt and OSTIF (179 XMR) https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/-/merge\_requests/150  
**\<sgp\_\>** Teserakt has already done half of the audit on their own decision  
**\<monerobux\>** Test failed  
**\<binaryFate\>** lol  
**\<sgp\_\>** no comments?  
**\<niocbrrrrrr\>** !donate [undisclosed\_amount]  
**\<niocbrrrrrr\>** please and thank you  
**\<sgp\_\>** haha nice  
**\<sgp\_\>** Any other CCS comments before we move on?  
**\<sgp\_\>** 4. Workgroup report  
**\<sgp\_\>** is selsta here?  
**\<selsta\>** yes  
**\<sgp\_\>** sweet  
**\<sgp\_\>** a. Daemon/CLI/GUI workgroup  
**\<sgp\_\>** go ahead :)  
**\<selsta\>** Will have to think :P  
**\<selsta\>** v0.16 was a smooth release and with no major problems.  
**\<selsta\>** I think we can soon prepare v0.17 with CLSAG  
**\<sgp\_\>** selsta: do you have an ideal release date for 0.17? since it will require a hardfork  
**\<ErCiccione\>** Good job btw. People are super happy with the new GUI and CLI  
**\<selsta\>** Not yet.  
**\<selsta\>** I want to release at least 1 month before the hardfork time.  
**\<kinghat[m]\>** ya the gui is sexy af  
**\<sgp\_\>** do you want it to happen before this fall?  
**\<selsta\>** I would guess hardfork 2 months after the audit is done but that might be too optimistic.  
**\<sarang\>** There will need to be Trezor/Ledger support in place from those teams  
**\<sarang\>** and they'll probably want a testnet to try it out on  
**\<selsta\>** We have to give exchanges and other wallets enough time to update.  
**\<dEBRUYNE\>** Bear in mind that CLSAG also requires changes from wallet providers  
**\<dEBRUYNE\>** Thus, we have to allow for more time arguably  
**\<selsta\>** yep  
**\<selsta\>** We are also thinking about signing the windows and macOS release but that might be a better topic for the dev meeting  
**\<selsta\>** code certificate signing\*  
**\<ErCiccione\>** yeah. The problem with the antiviruses needs to be at list mitigated somehow. Really bad UX  
**\<selsta\>** might no not possible to mitigate, but we will see  
**\<kinghat[m]\>** did one of those hw wallets monero integration get promoted to "full" or "proper" vs just being a side thing?  
**\<selsta\>** you mean ledger?  
**\<kinghat[m]\>** im not sure ü§î  
**\<sarang\>** Ledger  
**\<sarang\>** I'm in contact with the person now in charge of that  
**\<selsta\>** I did not read from the announcement that they will work on Ledger Live.  
**\<sarang\>** I do not know any details on that  
**\<selsta\>** anyway I‚Äôm done with the workgroup update  
**\<sgp\_\>** thanks selsta!  
**\<selsta\>** oh and one more thing  
**\<selsta\>** google might add monero to their open source fuzzer: https://github.com/google/oss-fuzz/pull/3941  
**\<sarang\>** IIRC moneromooo has been updating the fuzz tests in the codebase  
**\<sgp\_\>** sweet  
**\<selsta\>** this will help at find bugs in the monero codebase  
**\<selsta\>** finding\*  
**\<selsta\>** ok done now  
**\<sgp\_\>** thanks!  
**\<sgp\_\>** b. Localization workgroup  
**\<sgp\_\>** ErCiccione any update?  
**\<ErCiccione\>** Not much. About 50 people contributed to translate the GUI release  
**\<kinghat[m]\>** this is what i read: https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/gwkmcn/ledger\_monero\_app\_new\_lead\_dev/  
**\<kinghat[m]\>** \> Why? Until now Monero was still maintained as R&D project by myself. It is now moving in the coin integration team and will reach a new state level. That's as a good news.  
**\<monerobux\>** [REDDIT] Ledger Monero App: New lead dev! (self.Monero) | 149 points (100.0%) | 38 comments | Posted by cslashm | Created at 2020-06-04 - 16:21:05  
**\<ErCiccione\>** It's a good number, the highest amount of translators for a release was 60 IIRC, but don't quote me on that  
**\<sarang\>** kinghat[m]: I've been recently put in touch with the dev who's now in charge of that  
**\<sarang\>** I've reached out to get information on their required/desired timeline for a network upgrade  
**\<sarang\>** waiting to hear back  
**\<ErCiccione\>** also, Weblate is starting to catch up. People are using it every day and we have about 150 people on the platform  
**\<ErCiccione\>** the activity: https://translate.getmonero.org/#activity  
**\<ErCiccione\>** beside that, not much to report  
**\<kinghat[m]\>** sorry for the interruption ErCiccione.  
**\<ErCiccione\>** no problem :)  
**\<sgp\_\>** glad to hear so many people helped with 0.16  
**\<sgp\_\>** c. Outreach workgroup  
**\<sgp\_\>** Monero Outreach recently shared their ‚ÄúWe Accept Monero‚Äù campaign: https://www.monerooutreach.org/we-accept-monero.html  
**\<sgp\_\>** d. Website workgroup  
**\<sgp\_\>** lots of cool changes here :)  
**\<ErCiccione\>** Yeah there is a lot of stuff in progress  
**\<ErCiccione\>** I posted this on reddit today: https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/gxnqmf/lets\_improve\_the\_monero\_faq\_page\_on\_getmonero/  
**\<monerobux\>** [REDDIT] Let's improve the Monero FAQ page on GetMonero. What questions/answers should we add? (self.Monero) | 35 points (95.0%) | 7 comments | Posted by ErCiccione | Created at 2020-06-06 - 09:17:52  
**\<ErCiccione\>** I think we should improve the FAQ adding as many qestions as possible  
**\<ErCiccione\>** if anybody has ideas, please post them on reddit or open an issue  
**\<sgp\_\>** SE is definitely a good place to start  
**\<ErCiccione\>** or write here if you want but there is a higher chance of me forgetting it :P  
**\<ErCiccione\>** sgp\_ i used it when i remade the faq, but now i wanted to add questions that people are asking now  
**\<selsta\>** I don‚Äôt think trying to replace SE with the website FAQ makes sense. (Not sure if that‚Äôs the intention)  
**\<ErCiccione\>** I don't intend to replace SE at all. I just think that the website should be more a point of reference. Because people are more likely to look for answers there  
**\<sgp\_\>** not replacing SE  
**\<selsta\>** A lot of people google their question and get redirected to SE / Reddit. I doubt that many people will read to a huge FAQ but maybe that‚Äôs just my opinion.  
**\<selsta\>** through\*  
**\<sgp\_\>** this is mostly for media/journalists imo  
**\<midipoet\>** what's the story with #monero-defcon  
**\<sgp\_\>** better for them to reference the site than SE  
**\<selsta\>** But a FAQ makes sense in general, yes.  
**\<dEBRUYNE\>** SE has quite good SEO fwiw  
**\<dEBRUYNE\>** They will often appear on top for a search  
**\<msvb-mob\>** midipoet: What do you mean what's the story with #monero-defcon?  
**\<sgp\_\>** SE is good if someone googles a specific question  
**\<sgp\_\>** FAQ is good if someone goes digging  
**\<msvb-mob\>** midipoet: I see now, let me try to fix that.  
**\<selsta\>** IMO FAQ is more for general questions about Monero, not too technical things.  
**\<sgp\_\>** yeah agreed  
**\<ErCiccione\>** selsta: yep, that's my point  
**\<midipoet\>** msvb-mob: thankyou!  
**\<kayront\>** question, there was some talk months ago about ring sizes increasing to epic quantities, is that still on the table?  
**\<kayront\>** (hi everyone!)  
**\<sgp\_\>** kayront: not with clsags  
**\<sgp\_\>** longer term  
**\<ErCiccione\>** For who is not aware of that. I'm changing the homepage, you are welcome to review and participate to the dicussion: https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/pull/948  
**\<ErCiccione\>** oh almost forgot  
**\<ErCiccione\>** We are working on implementing the netlify previews on getmonero  
**\<kayront\>** sgp\_: years?  
**\<ErCiccione\>** Basically every time somebody open a PR, netlify will build it and show a preview. That's useful because people without a building environment can see how a PR will look like once merged  
**\<ErCiccione\>** see https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/pull/1016  
**\<ErCiccione\>** That's something i look forward to and i hope will help increasing the activity on the monero-site repo  
**\<dEBRUYNE\>** kayront: Realistically I think Triptych is 1-1.5 years out  
**\<sarang\>** There are still some questions on multisig support due to some different math  
**\<msvb-lab\>** midipoet: You (and all of us) can now again access #monero-defcon.  
**\<midipoet\>** msvb-lab: thank you :-).  
**\<selsta\>** ErCiccione: useful :D  
**\<ErCiccione\>** i made a test PR that people can use as example  
**\<ErCiccione\>** https://github.com/erciccione/monero-site/pull/17  
**\<midipoet\>** msvb-lab: there might still be a permissions issue...as I get an error trying to post a message  
**\<binaryFate\>** ErCiccione I'll get to the netlify thing tomorrow  
**\<ErCiccione\>** I PRd the edited homepage. You can see netlify's comment with a link  
**\<ErCiccione\>** that's the PR built and deployed  
**\<ErCiccione\>** thanks binaryfate :)  
**\<sarang\>** ErCiccione: any practical risk of an attacker fooling someone into thinking it's the real site?  
**\<sarang\>** I suppose such an attacker could just deploy their own clone of the code, and the domain is netlify...  
**\<kayront\>** asked this in -dev several mins ago before realizing there's a meeting going on, does anyone know if this would be possible: " another thing: would it technically be possible to have an "account viewkey", rather than a wallet-wide one? use cases would be services that require the viewkey to confirm payments, generate addresses etc, this is a fairly common use case; and for simplicity/backup/sanity reasons it's helpful to only have one  
**\<kayront\>** underlying seed"  
**\<ErCiccione\>** unlikely IMO  
**\<ErCiccione\>** but even if they do think it's the real website, there are no downloads  
**\<ErCiccione\>** and the links are hard to mistake. The homepage for example is built here: https://deploy-preview-17--frosty-jones-8df25a.netlify.app  
**\<sgp\_\>** thanks ErCiccione  
**\<sgp\_\>** anything else on the website?  
**\<sgp\_\>** sarang: can you quickly give an update on MRL?  
**\<ErCiccione\>** don't think so  
**\<sarang\>** Sure  
**\<sarang\>** The CLSAG audit process is proceeding nicely  
\* midipoet realises there was a meeting  
**\<sarang\>** I spent quite a bit of time re-running and correcting some tracing analysis that came out in a preprint  
**\<sarang\>** The results are much better than the preprint had suggested  
**\<sgp\_\>** that was just a class project afaict  
**\<sarang\>** Yes, but it got some attention and was a good excuse to run updated analysis anyway  
**\<sgp\_\>** thanks sarang  
**\<sgp\_\>** there's one topic ErCiccione wanted to discuss at the meeting  
**\<sgp\_\>** ErCiccione asked to reserve some time to make a decision of using ‚Äúreasonably‚Äù in the homepage: https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/471#issuecomment-639582413  
**\<sgp\_\>** https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/issues/971  
**\<ErCiccione\>** yeah let's get done with that  
**\<sgp\_\>** I think it should be removed  
**\<sgp\_\>** it doesn't convey the nuances it attempted to convey imo  
**\<ErCiccione\>** I liked it, but i see why people prefer to have it removed. If it's controversial, let's just remove it  
**\<ErCiccione\>** people wanted to change "slogan" anyway, no?  
**\<sgp\_\>** yeah there were other ideas too  
**\<kayront\>** fwiw i think it reads a bit like a cop-out  
**\<deedledea\>** +1 for removing it  
**\<kayront\>** i understand the idea behind it, but for the uninitiated it probably reads more like "it's probably not gonna keep my stuff private"  
**\<sarang\>** The idea was that privacy and security always depend on risk and threat models  
**\<sgp\_\>** who gets that from "reasonably" though if they don't already get that  
**\<sarang\>** understood  
**\<binaryFate\>** remove it please, it's only in geek circles that people might get the honest meaning. We're very honest if people dig more, no need to confuse on the homepage  
**\<kayront\>** yeah sarang, iirc QubesOS used/uses "reasonably secure" as well, in reality that's what it is because nothing can be 100% safe  
**\<kayront\>** but for new people the nuance will be lost i reckon  
**\<sgp\_\>** any final comments?  
**\<sarang\>** I'm not tied to that specific wording. As long as the presentation is honest and reasonable  
**\<sgp\_\>** okay, we can wrap up then. thanks for your patience as we went over  
**\<sgp\_\>** 6. Confirm next meeting date/time  
**\<sgp\_\>** The next community meeting will be in 2 weeks on 20 June at 17:00 UTC.  
**\<sgp\_\>** The next Coffee Chat is on Saturday 27 June at 17:00 UTC  
**\<sgp\_\>** Conclusion  
**\<ErCiccione\>** alright, i'll remove it tomorrow  
**\<sgp\_\>** That‚Äôs all! Thanks for attending this Monero Community meeting, and we hope to see you on r/MoneroCommunity and #monero-community. Take care, STAY SAFE AND ISOLATED, and know that change starts with YOU.  
