---
date: 2016-09-11
title: Logs for the Kovri Dev Meeting Held on 2016-09-11
summary: Kovri Logo, code & open tickets discussion
tags: [dev diaries, i2p, crypto]
author: dEBRUYNE / fluffypony
---

### Logs

**\<fluffypony>** anonimal: all yours :)  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** 1. Community input for kovri logo https://99designs.com/logo-design/contests/create-beautiful-logo-kovri-privacy-enhancing-open-source-652257/entries  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** 2. Greetings  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** 3. Brief review of what's been completed since the previous meeting  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** 4. Code + ticket discussion / Q & A  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** 5. Any additional meeting items  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** 6. Confirm next meeting date/time  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Everyone quick, before you leave, give your opinion on the logo!  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** fluffypony: I think we narrowed it down to #239 and #146  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Maybe others are of interest?  
**\<MalMen>** well, I am checking the bitcoin rcp and they use wordwordword, I think i like word_word_word better  
**\<fluffypony>** https://99designs.com/logo-design/contests/create-beautiful-logo-kovri-privacy-enhancing-open-source-652257/entries/146  
**\<fluffypony>** https://99designs.com/logo-design/contests/create-beautiful-logo-kovri-privacy-enhancing-open-source-652257/entries/239  
**\<hyc>** the onion/garlic thing ... I guess it's descriptive, but I can't take it seriously  
**\<lurker>** 146  
**\<fluffypony>** hyc: it's coz of Garlic Routing  
**\<Elli0t>** 88  
**\<MalMen>** for example "getthis" would  bedificuld to understund with no "get\_this", but i like "getThis" too, I think I got that from javascript  
**\<hyc>** yes, I see that, but ...  
**\<fluffypony>** MalMen: can you take it to PM with tewinget, or wait till after the Kovri meeting?  
**\<tewinget>** MalMen: if you want to discuss that, PM me, otherwise try to wait until the Kovri meeting concludes.  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** MalMen, we are in the kovri meeting. Please wait for monero chat until afterward.  
**\<tewinget>** dammit fluffypony  
**\<fluffypony>** lol  
**\<MalMen>** lo  
**\<MalMen>** please continue :D  
**\<hyc>** I think the stylized Ks are more preofessional  
**\<Kermit_>** As a designer 146 it also brand recognition with xmr  
**\<fluffypony>** #146 is more in the spirit of the Monero logo, I'll definitely agree with that  
**\<fluffypony>** and yeah, the brand recognition aspect is +1  
**\<i2p-relay> {-guzzi}** #239  
**\<tooquick_4u>** #146  
**\<meeting-bot> [i2p-relay] {-moneromooo}** I kinda like https://images-contests.99static.com/wYofliD7HjSVmkBoYhGS4CyMeNc=/188x0:1464x1276/500x500/top/smart/99designs-contests-attachments/75/75384/attachment\_75384769, the variants of https://images-contests.99static.com/Gs4VClupDwKJEGKvaX7I40TLckg=/0x0:1156x1156/500x500/top/smart/99designs-contests-  
**\<meeting-bot>** attachments/75/75381/attachment\_75381142  
**\<tewinget>** wait, isn't 99designs basically spec-work?  
**\<meeting-bot> [i2p-relay] {-ArticMine}** Kovri logo Do we want a variant of the Monero logo or something entirely different?  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** But why get washed in with more corporatism? We're at a juncture to break some molds here.  
**\<fluffypony>** tewinget: yes  
**\<tewinget>** eww  
**\<DaveyJones>** on the other hand 239 is catchy... ppl may recognize that... while 146 goes in and goes out of mind  
**\* fluffypony** ponders  
**\<tewinget>** that said, 146 is nice.  
**\<hyc>** I kinda like 254 / 253 but they're so abstract I dunno what they represent  
**\<fluffypony>** anonimal: I don't think it's "corporate" per se  
**\<fluffypony>** "professional" sure  
**\<blackink>** my vote is 236  
**\<blackink>** i mean 239  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** moneromooo: can you tiny that url? weechat sucks  
**\<hyc>** 239 - ok, that's still understated, I could respect that  
**\<fluffypony>** my concern is that if we're too playful it eventually ends up like this: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/8/84/Itoopie.svg/2000px-Itoopie.svg.png  
**\<fluffypony>** :-P  
**\<pero>** i like the font squarepoint is using  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** hyc: 254/253, the person was probably drinking pepsi at the time.  
**\<pero>** in 25x and 99  
**\<tewinget>** 24{7,8} aren't half bad.  
**\<hyc>** lol. 219 has that Monero tie-in with the garlic  
**\<pero>** i like #239 but the kerning is awful from a typography perspective  
**\<meeting-bot> [guzzi]** why the halloween colors anyway?  
**\<fluffypony>** bear in mind, too, that we can change it later on  
**\<meeting-bot> [i2p-relay] {-moneromooo}** anonimal: https://paste.fedoraproject.org/426683/14736136/  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** moneromooo: thanks  
**\<fluffypony>** guzzi: the orange? coz of the Monero logo's colours, I'd guess  
**\<ferretinjapan>** 246 is a nice mix of both 146 and 239 imo  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** fluffypony: how much *can* we change after we pick one?  
**\<fluffypony>** anonimal: we can always pay them more to make more changes  
**\<fluffypony>** we also made changes to the Monero logo after delivery  
**\<fluffypony>** to fix the kerning  
**\<meeting-bot> [guzzi]** got it  
**\<meeting-bot> [i2p-relay] {-moneromooo}** Not sure what numbers these map to, no numbers in the URLs  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** I like 239 btw  
**\<nioc>** if between 239 and 146 then 239  
**\<pero>** wouldnt logo selection work better (more efficiently) by filtering out the ones no one likes  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** moneromooo: your first link is #239  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** moneromooo: the garlic one was top choice #239, the other one I don't know  
**\<pero>** and then having an in depth look at a smaller selection  
**\<fluffypony>** pero: no this is much more fun, the entire dev meeting will be "but I like this logo" :-P  
**\<meeting-bot> [i2p-relay] {-moneromooo}** THanks :)  
**\<hyc>** in that 223 series, is that a Tau, for Tor?  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** moneromooo: I like the mask idea but the artist took the easy way out and just plastered it next to text.  
**\<MalMen>** between 146 and 239 for me  
**\<hyc>** 236-237 I have to exclude, there's a Circle-K convenience store chain in California that looks like that  
**\<ferretinjapan>** why not make it 146 and just go a different color, it would still feel monero-ish  
**\<Flyfree10>** is this where the meeting for Monero is?  
**\<MalMen>** 239 is nice because it bring the "onion" that is easly recognised by tor users  
**\<lurker>** i think keep it simple whilst linking to monero and its a winner 239 is good but if at anypoint the logo is just to be used it is not always instantly recognisable whereas the 146 is  
**\<moneromooo>** Flyfree10: finished  
**\<Flyfree10>** how did it go?  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** hyc: re: tau, that's a bold stretch, I think only you and a few others would have pointed that out  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** e.g., artist probably wasn't thinking on that level  
**\<moneromooo>** Hmm. Wordy I guess. There will be logs from dEBRUYNE, most likely.  
**\<hyc>** I'm gonna go with 239  
**\<tewinget>** Flyfree10: Kovri meeting in-progress, wait a bit and Monero dev meeting minutes will be on reddit I'm sure.  
**\<hyc>** if you think the typography needs to be touched up, cool, but overall it looks classy and it still has the garlic without being over the top  
**\<fluffypony>** ok  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Alright, I'm seeing a lot of #239 (also my top pick)  
**\<meeting-bot> [i2p-relay] {-moneromooo}** People are going to be confused between garlic/onion, I'm sure.  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** They should be, they are very similar in terms of routing  
**\<fluffypony>** they are, moneromooo, but I don't think they'll be confused enough to care  
**\<fluffypony>** it's not like people make privacy decisions based on routing models :-P  
**\<ferretinjapan>** yeah i think the garlic just looks confusing.  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** So should we do a vote of "anything \*not* 239"?  
**\<hyc>** yeah. it's close enough. several of the others leave me wondering WTH they are.  
**\<\_Slack> <xmr\_eric>** The one option I'm not seeing is a direct copy of the Monero (M). I did a quick mockup: https://i.imgur.com/8wIh8Hb.png  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Strong opinions on \*not* 239?  
**\<meeting-bot> [i2p-relay] {-moneromooo}** Well... "I use kovri, that's a privacy program for that onion type thing"  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** How can we improve #239?  
**\<fluffypony>** otoh I don't think I've ever heard a non-technical person talk about onion routing, moneromooo  
**\<medusa_>** personally i also like 245, the green symbols strong roots  
**\<pero>** 239 needs a different font and some kerning  
**\<MalMen>** we can allways tell "we use garlic instead of union to keep vampires away from the network"  
**\<fluffypony>** xmr\_eric: there were a bunch of those, like hundreds of them, we rejected them in favour of #239  
**\<meeting-bot> [i2p-relay] {-ArticMine}** 239 Possible confusion with Tor. Could be dicey from a trademark perspective  
**\<\_Slack> <xmr\_eric>** cool  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** #239 looks nice  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** Don't think there would be trademark issues  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** medusa_ I like the logo but not so much the colour.  
**\<pero>** if you took the word kovri from 254 and stuck it into 239 it would look significantly better  
**\<fluffypony>** ArticMine: I don't know if there's much risk there, since they're just terms that describe the routing (and Tor don't own a trademark on the routing term afaik)  
**\<fluffypony>** definitely if we were claiming something like that in text  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** pero: good point  
**\<MalMen>** anonimal at the begining I didnt like the colors of monero too, but grown on me  
**\<hyc>** yeh that's why I don't like 246. the tuft at the top of the logo reminds me too much of the tor onion  
**\<ferretinjapan>** 239 isnt horrible, but it definitely doesn't feel like it has a connection to Monero  
**\<ferretinjapan>** other than the color, it doesn't really feel like it's closely bound to the Monero project.  
**\<lurker>** agree ferretinjapan  
**\<meeting-bot> [i2p-relay] {-ArticMine}** There are common law trademarks by "use in commerce" in both cases  
**\<ferretinjapan>** If that's intentional then awesome, but otherwise, people may not even connect monero and kovri together as being sister projects.  
**\<meeting-bot> [i2p-relay] {-moneromooo}** Then... we could superimpose: 239 with added arms on top of the monero M, trying to hide it :D  
**\<pero>** i think my the minimal pacmans from 88 and 81 arent bad either  
**\<fluffypony>** anonimal: what are your thoughts on the "connection to Monero" thing - do we want it to be more tightly coupled or not?  
**\<hyc>** then xmr\_eric's would be fine  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** fluffypony ferretinjapan lurker: if the artists can somehow come up with a better idea other than slapping a big K in the style of monero onto the garlic, then I'm open to new ideas  
**\<meeting-bot> [guzzi]** fluffypony i agree if there needs to be aconnection to monero that is important to discussion on 239  
**\<hyc>** or at least a starting point. maybe turn the circle background into the garlic  
**\<pero>** 139 and 138 too  
**\<meeting-bot> [guzzi]** anonimal, aggreed on the K statement.  
**\<pero>** 138 is a more subtle variant of 239  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Realistically, at kovri's future apex, it will still be an independent router; so I'm not sure why there's so much concern about "connection"  
**\<hyc>** hm, yeah, so subtle I didn't notice it before ;)  
**\<ferretinjapan>** a fusing of the two whould be nice  
**\* tewinget** (tentatively) casts his vote for 247, or some iteration upon it.  
**\<fluffypony>** anonimal: I guess because it's like Apache projects, that all fold into the Apache structure / governance etc.  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** the color by itself should be a sufficient connection  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** #247 looks so terribly awkward  
**\<ferretinjapan>** that's why I liked #246, but maybe it's a bit too plain  
**\<hyc>** 138 reminds me more of saturn's rings than a garlic  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** #246: the flaming egg  
**\<hyc>** I'm still going with 239, final answer.  
**\<fluffypony>** lol  
**\<ferretinjapan>** or the tennisball with fuzz on top :)  
**\<meeting-bot> [i2p-relay] {-ArticMine}** Possibly 251 No onion / garlic  
**\<MalMen>** well, If it was to be something completly distinct from monero I would vote 249  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Let's decide on 1 and see how we can improve it.  
**\<tewinget>** I think maybe since there are so many opinions we shelf this for now, make a shortlist of 10 or so, and discuss among just those at a later time.  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** I'm voting #239  
**\<meeting-bot> [guzzi]** we ef have two camps here.  use a letter like Monero logo or -- somethinge else00  
**\<fluffypony>** we have 8 days to make a decision, tewinget  
**\<hyc>** shrink them down to 16x16 favicons, most of them will look like garbage  
**\<fluffypony>** tbh I kinda like #239 too  
**\<fluffypony>** and I think the colour is indeed enough of a connection  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** #239 should do  
**\<tewinget>** fluffypony: that later time could be an hour from now, I just figured maybe get to the rest of the Kovri meeting, then circle back.  
**\<fluffypony>** also we can ALWAYS change it later  
**\<pero>** hyc except for 135 and 134  
**\<fluffypony>** not like we have a branding department to report to  
**\<pero>** i think tus\_99 definitely has the best handle on the design  
**\<hyc>** ok, 135 isn't bad.  
**\<pero>** and squarepoint the best typography  
**\<fluffypony>** anonimal: as the CEO of Kovri (kidding) you get to decide, I think you've heard enough opinions, and we'll defer to you  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** fluffypony: thank you  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** #239 it is \*but* we should work out font and see if artist can improve the idea.  
**\<fluffypony>** absolutely  
**\<fluffypony>** I'll finalise the 99designs competition in the next couple of days, and give the artist final direction  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Who here had thoughts about kerning, etc.?  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** (backlog too big to read)  
**\<pero>** that was i  
**\<fluffypony>** pero did  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** pero could you give specifics so fluffypony can relay to artist?  
**\<pero>** sure i'll pm him something in a little bit  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Thanks pero  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** fluffypony: will we ever have a one-on-one with tus_99?  
**\<fluffypony>** I don't think so  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** As in, ever speak directly with him?  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Oh  
**\<fluffypony>** I think we send him direction and then he's like "ok here" and that's it  
**\<fluffypony>** but we will have the source  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Odd world we live in.  
**\<fluffypony>** and we can modify it from there  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Ok great  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** So, resolved with #239?  
**\<meeting-bot> [i2p-relay] {-ArticMine}** I have to leave now  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Thanks ArticMine  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** anonimal: Yes, let's move on  
**\<fluffypony>** indeed  
**\<fluffypony>** rubber stamp of approval and all that  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Sold, to #239!  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Alright next  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** 2. Greetings  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** 3. Brief review of what's been completed since the previous meeting  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Hi  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** (lol)  
**\<fluffypony>** lol  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** Hi  
**\<meeting-bot> [guzzi]** hi  
**\<fluffypony>** EinMByte thanks for taking the time to join the meeting, I know you're busy  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** git log --pretty=oneline --since=2weeks --no-merges | wc -l  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** 30  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Fixes, features, improvements.  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Highlights include:  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** - The infamous transports "5 - 6 = 18446744073709551615" diffie-hellman keypair supplier bug, now fixed  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** - AddressBook fixes/enhancements  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** - HTTP fixes/enhancements  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** - Clearnet / in-net download impl  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** - Coverity resolutions  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** - More in log  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Please pipe-in if I missed something we should note  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Oh yes, more NTCP fixes thanks to EinMByte  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** And more on the way (not yet merged)  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Anything else on 3.?  
**\<fluffypony>** i'd like to point out that the Kovri instance that runs i2p-relay  
**\<fluffypony>** no longer suffers from memory leaks (although they were only occasional before)  
**\<fluffypony>** thank you for fixing :)  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** There's a few more leaks that need fixing  
**\<fluffypony>** (that server has 128gb of RAM, so a memory leak is kinda humorous)  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Hard to pin down. One would think they would have checked that 5 - 6 != 0  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** s/they/the mathematical magician/  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** fluffypony: Please tell us when you see inbound NTCP happening :)  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** EinMByte that'll probably never happen until we fix it, lol  
**\<fluffypony>** will do lol  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** If we even need to fix it  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Something needs fixed somewhere  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** Probably, yes  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** 4. Code + ticket discussion / Q & A  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** So latest hot topic was release planning for 33C3  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** Is that done? Wiki still looks empty  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** I'd rather not repeat the tons of work EinMByte and I have done this week. If anyone is interested they can start idling #kovri-dev  
**\<fluffypony>** whoop whoop  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** No, wiki not done  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** I've sorted out open issues,  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** will open a few more directly related to first release,  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** will do more roadmap work once release cycle is codified,  
**\<fluffypony>** and now that we're closer to logo I can get back on the website / email bandwagon  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** we sill need a solid answer on CI  
**\<fluffypony>** anonimal: which CI question?  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Mr. build bot, the devops guy who was supposed to be at the monero meeting today  
**\<pigeons>** hello  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Maybe I missed the discussion, I don't know  
**\<DaveyJones>** pigeons it is :D  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Hi pigeons  
**\<fluffypony>** oh  
**\<fluffypony>** lol  
**\<fluffypony>** anonimal sorry, it was at the beginning of the Monero meeting  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** My fault then, I came in late  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** When are we throwing out travis?  
**\<pigeons>** Hi. Im just getting everything started, but feel free to chat with me anytime and ill show you what were doing and yuo can tellme about the needs  
**\<fluffypony>** anonimal: we'll probably break the chassis on Monero first  
**\<fluffypony>** and setup IRC hooks etc.  
**\<fluffypony>** and then adding Kovri will be a snap  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Awesome and awesome, thanks pigeons and fluffypony  
**\<pigeons>** luckiy buildbot irc hooks are vey automactice and easy  
**\<fluffypony>** hashtag excite  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Ok great, so we'll keep in touch then overtime.  
**\<pigeons>** cool.  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Next issue, fluffypony did you want me to bring-up/add something to the agenda?  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** fluffypony: was it for website or email or both?  
**\<fluffypony>** anonimal: both  
**\<fluffypony>** can't think of anything else  
**\<fluffypony>** re: 33C3 I'll be putting a post up on the forum in the next little while so everyone knows what's potting  
**\<meeting-bot>** anonimal checking issues  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Ok, they've been milestone'd  
**\<fluffypony>** awesomesauce  
**\<fluffypony>** when shall we three meeting again? (to quote Macbeth)  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Alright, open issues should be organized enough / milestone'd where appropriate  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Anything else on 4.?  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** (4. Code + ticket discussion / Q & A)  
**\<fluffypony>** nothing from my side  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** So what I'm currently working (of the milestoned issues): #191, #312, #342  
**\<meeting-bot>** [guzzi] i will keep working on coverety isues  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** Will do #213 later  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** For the memory leaks (and other memory problems): the ntcp branch has a couple of fixes  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** Currently working on a (partial) fix of #342  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** You're not assigned to #342, I can add you unless you wanted to add yourself  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** I'll assign  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** https://github.com/monero-project/kovri/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A0.1.0-alpha+assignee%3AEinMByte  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Ok  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** So to be clear, the backtrace you posted 4 hours ago is what I fixed  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** (but not yet pushed because unforseen issues)  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** I posted two. I imagine you're talking about the NTCP one  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** Yes  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** Won't touch the client issue for now  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Yay client  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** https://github.com/monero-project/kovri/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A0.1.0-alpha+assignee%3Aanonimal  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** That covers a small fraction of what I'll end up fixing / working on  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** For #187 (NTCP core issues), the main thing left to fix is the inbound NTCP  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** I just don't assign myself in case someone else wants to grab something  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** EinMByte: yeah, running tcpdump against kovri --log-to-console 0 --v6 1 --enable-ssu 0  
**\<meeting-bot>** \* anonimal pasting  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** Yes, and I'd ask everyone else wanting to help out to do the same  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** 19:42:20.974119 IP6 2001:0:9d38:6ab8:2c92:2e09:b8ee:e2d.59823 > me.11552: Flags [S], seq 1067814148, win 8192, options [mss 1220,nop,wscale 8,nop,nop,sackOK], length 0  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** 19:42:28.017709 IP6 2001:0:9d38:6ab8:2c92:2e09:b8ee:e2d.59823 > me.11552: Flags [S], seq 1067814148, win 8192, options [mss 1220,nop,nop,sackOK], length 0  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** guzzi: Try this if you get bored with coverity issues  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Let's take mroe NTCP chat outside of the meeting since this is being logged  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** (--v6 not necessary, just see if you get inbound traffic, and paste logs when you do)  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** \*more  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Yes, I know, just happens to be the instance that is running  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** ok  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** guzzi any questions about tickets, etc.?  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** I'll be around after meeting, moving on.  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** 5. Any additional meeting items  
**\<meeting-bot> [guzzi]** no you have given me good tips lately  
**\<meeting-bot> [guzzi]** i appreciate it.  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Ok good, glad to help.  
**\<fluffypony>** that's it from me  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Glad to have you onboard.  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Nothing from me on 5.  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Last call for 5.  
**\<fluffypony>** going once, going twice, sold!  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** 6. Confirm next meeting date/time  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** What about the website, though?  
**\<meeting-bot>** * anonimal backtracks to 5.  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** (or did I just miss that)  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** fluffypony: do you have any details yet?  
**\<fluffypony>** EinMByte: I said that now that we're wrapping up the logo I can get back on the bandwagon with that  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** And it \*will\* be online by first release fluffypony, yes?  
**\<fluffypony>** absolutely  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** Well, it was supposed to be done by today  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** lol, EinMByte cracking the whip  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** So, what's the real deadline?  
**\<fluffypony>** oh - there must've been a miscommunication; when we decided on the logo finalists I said I was shelving it till we'd completed the logo decision  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** I think deadline should be at the very least a week before 33C3.  
**\<fluffypony>** anonimal: long before then  
**\<fluffypony>** we're keeping it simple initially, remember  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** As long as it works and doesn't look terrible, I'm happy.  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Should we make a concrete date for website like we are for kovri release?  
**\<fluffypony>** let's see where we get before the next meeting and re-address it then  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** ok  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** Let's put that on the roadmap  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** One thing for 5.,  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** questioning if we should move build instructions to wiki  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** (github wiki)  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** A) easier, doesn't pollute git log B) makes us reliant on github  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** A good, B bad.  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Any thoughts? or we can move this to next meeting  
**\<fluffypony>** I think that's a bad idea  
**\<fluffypony>** if someone clones the repo they should have everything they need right there  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** But if they don't have network connectivity, kovri is useless  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** I tend to agree with fluffypony  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** And if they can clone from github, they have access to the website  
**\<fluffypony>** anonimal: what if Github blocks Tor access after they've cloned it?  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** And if they have access to either, they can read build instructions.  
**\<fluffypony>** not everyone will be able to checkout an old commit to get build instructions  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** There could be a tutorial of some sort in the wiki  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** But basic build instructions should be in the repo  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Alright, no arguments from me, just questioning  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Anything else on 5.?  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** We're out of time  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** 6. Confirm next meeting date/time  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** 2 weeks from now, works best I think.  
**\<fluffypony>** 2 weeks from now plz  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Ok, sept. 25th, same time  
**\<fluffypony>** ok  
**\<meeting-bot> [EinMByte]** ok  
**\<meeting-bot> [anonimal]** Thanks everyone. Thanks #monero-dev for the logo input too  
**\<meeting-bot> [guzzi]** ok