---
date: 2018-12-08
title: Logs for the Community Meeting Held on 2018-12-08
summary: Community highlights, Forum Funding System updates, Workgroup report, and miscellaneous
tags: [dev diaries, crypto]
author: el00ruobuob / SamsungGalaxyPlayer
---

# Logs  

**\<sgp\_>** Monero Community Meeting!  
**\<sgp\_>** 0. Introduction  
**\<sgp\_>** We would like to welcome everyone to this Monero Community Meeting!  
**\<sgp\_>** Link to agenda on GitHub: https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/293  
**\<sgp\_>** Monero Community meetings are a discussion place for anything going on in the Monero Community, including other Monero workgroups. We use meetings to encourage the community to share ideas and provide support. Stay up to date with the latest events by subscribing to this calendar: https://xmr.ncrypt.sh/index.php/apps/calendar/p/8dP6z6XQDnkPREo4/Monero-Meetings  
**\<sgp\_>** 1. Greetings  
**\<rehrar>** what up, scrubs?  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** Hi!  
**\<sgp\_>** we h  ave a record 3 people in attendance  
**\<sgp\_>** lots of stuff to discuss though, so hopefully more people stop by  
**\<i\_a>** it looks like I wisely attended golden edition:P  
**\<sgp\_>** every community meeting is a golden edition:)  
**\<sgp\_>** 2. Community highlights  
**\<sgp\_>** Monero was recently added to cryptocurrency ATMs in Switzerland: https://blog.bity.com/2018/12/04/buy-xmr-with-cash-crypto-atms/  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Hi  
**\<sgp\_>** u/cheesebaron wrote about their expereince using one of these ATMs here: https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/a3fusi/just\_used\_bity\_monero\_atm\_in\_switzerland/  
**\<monerobux>** [REDDIT] Just used BITY Monero ATM in Switzerland (self.Monero) | 100 points (96.0%) | 25 comments | Posted by Cheesebaron | Created at 2018-12-05 - 19:51:26  
**\<sgp\_>** u/thankful\_for\_monero created a chart of the number of full nodes in Europe: https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/a00j1c/i\_made\_a\_chart\_of\_the\_number\_of\_full\_node\_in/  
**\<monerobux>** [REDDIT] I made a chart of the number of full node in Europe. (https://i.redd.it/8tlq0fkehb021.png) to r/Monero | 160 points (97.0%) | 62 comments | Posted by thankful\_for\_monero | Created at 2018-11-24 - 17:53:26  
**\<sgp\_>** u/Gella\_Cash made a chart for nodes in the world: https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/a0c6vi/i\_made\_a\_chart\_of\_the\_number\_of\_full\_nodes\_around/  
**\<monerobux>** [REDDIT] I made a chart of the number of full nodes around the world (self.Monero) | 55 points (94.0%) | 30 comments | Posted by Hella\_Cash | Created at 2018-11-25 - 20:45:02  
**\<sgp\_>** \*Hella\_Cash, oops  
**\<sgp\_>** AlexAnarcho gave a talk about Monero in Berlin: https://youtu.be/AA9Z6g6WViw  
**\<sgp\_>** Sarang Noether wrote their November monthly report: https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/a1mgy2/november\_monthly\_report\_from\_sarang\_noether/  
**\<monerobux>** [REDDIT] November monthly report from Sarang Noether (self.Monero) | 68 points (92.0%) | 43 comments | Posted by SarangNoether | Created at 2018-11-29 - 23:00:42  
**\<sgp\_>** The DEF CON videos were finally uploaded to the official channel, so make sure to check them out there (especially my ring signature video :p)  
**\<sgp\_>** Does anyone else have community updates to share?  
**\<dsc\_>** I do  
**\<rehrar>** Avengers 4 trailer  
**\<sgp\_>** go ahead dsc\_  
**\<dsc\_>** Short GUI update; I'm experimenting with a new dedicated merchant tab/page inside the GUI. This functionality was previously already present under 'Receive' but figured it made more sense to move it away from there.  
**\<dsc\_>** I tried to make it so that you can use the GUI as a point-of-sales application, fullscreen on a monitor (in a store?). Some screenshots: https://i.imgur.com/0SoV6zz.png, https://i.imgur.com/DcFa0RW.png  
**\<dsc\_>** In addition; GUI repository has been quite active as of recent and I suspect many new improvements/features in the 0.14 release, for example (but not limited to): redesigned wizards (Startup screens), white-theme, the new merchant page and a ton of bugfixes.  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Quick update. Pootle is now available to the community: https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/a3pfb3/the\_translation\_platform\_pootle\_is\_now\_ready\_to/  
**\<monerobux>** [REDDIT] The translation platform, Pootle, is now ready to be used! Check it out on translate.getmonero.org (self.Monero) | 23 points (86.0%) | 2 comments | Posted by ErCiccione | Created at 2018-12-06 - 16:23:58  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** translate.getmonero.org  
**\<sgp\_>** dsc\_ so there are now two accept screens in the GUI?  
**\<dsc\_>** sgp\_: Nope, it will go under it's own menu option; https://i.imgur.com/AtJekwc.png  
**\<rehrar>** "Merchant Mode"  
**\<sgp\_>** do you have a list of the changes you want to make for a merchant mode? could be a good opportunity to get community feedback  
**\<dsc\_>** The changes I've made for this PR will be summed up and end up on Reddit for community feedback soon(tm)  
**\<sgp\_>** awesome, I look forward to it  
**\<sgp\_>** thanks for the updates dsc\_ and ErCiccione  
**\<sgp\_>** 3. FFS updates  
**\<sgp\_>** Lots of activity here. Hold on to your hats  
**\<sgp\_>** Recently funded FFS proposals:  
**\<sgp\_>** Funding for development of Reproducible Builds (13 / 9 XMR) https://forum.getmonero.org/8/funding-required/91098/funding-for-development-of-reproducible-builds  
**\<sgp\_>** FFS proposals still needing funding:  
**\<sgp\_>** Surae Noether: First Denver Monero Konferenco, Spring 2019 (112.76 / 591 XMR) https://forum.getmonero.org/8/funding-required/90909/surae-noether-first-denver-monero-konferenco-spring-2019  
**\<sgp\_>** Monero Outreach: Round 2 (23.97 / 84 XMR) https://forum.getmonero.org/8/funding-required/91054/monero-outreach-round-2  
**\<sgp\_>** Team Monerujo: Part-Time December-February (75.53 / 220 XMR) https://forum.getmonero.org/8/funding-required/91137/team-monerujo-part-time-december-february  
**\<sgp\_>** Sarang: funding for January-March 2019 (77.48 / 533 XMR) https://forum.getmonero.org/8/funding-required/91242/sarang-funding-for-january-march-2019  
**\<sgp\_>** moneromooo: january – march coding (107.47 / 368 XMR) https://forum.getmonero.org/8/funding-required/91206/moneromooo-january-march-coding  
**\<sgp\_>** Surae: Dec 2018 – Mar 2019 (78.33 / 620 XMR) https://forum.getmonero.org/8/funding-required/91251/surae-dec-2018-mar-2019  
**\<sgp\_>** Proposals in ideas:  
**\<rehrar>** I'll put mine up to go to C3 soon  
**\<sgp\_>** oneiric: Full-time Kovri developer December to February (391.78 XMR) https://forum.getmonero.org/6/ideas/91264/oneiric-full-time-kovri-developer-december-to-february  
**\<sgp\_>** ErCiccione: Coordinator of the Localization Workgroup (159 XMR) https://forum.getmonero.org/6/ideas/91261/erciccione-coordinator-of-the-localization-workgroup  
**\<sgp\_>** Monero Integrations Update (7.5 XMR) https://forum.getmonero.org/6/ideas/91259/monero-integrations-update  
**\<sgp\_>** ping serhack cryptochangements  
**\<sgp\_>** Lots to unpack here  
**\<parasew[m]>** hey everyone, sorry for coming late (irc troubles)  
**\<sgp\_>** There are a number of partially-funded outstanding proposals that need some help  
**\<oneiric\_>** hi all, sorry for tardiness as well  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** i published mine too, but it still "pending approval" for some reason https://forum.getmonero.org/6/ideas/91269/el00ruobuob-january-to-march-part-time-for-a-new-quarter  
**\<sgp\_>** weird el00ruobuob, thanks for sharing it here  
**\<sgp\_>** First things first, are there any comments on the ideas? Let's start with oneiric\_'s proposal  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** only positive comments from me  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** + for oneiric proposal  
**\<sgp\_>** any comments you want to convey beyond what's included in the proposal oneiric\_?  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** i meant +1  
**\<oneiric\_>** thanks el00ruobuob\_[m] and ErCiccione[m] :)  
**\<sgp\_>** all right, moving on to ErCiccione's proposal  
**\<oneiric\_>** sgp\_ not really, I appreciate all the support from the community, and hope that anonimal will be open to working with me  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** my proposal is the same as always. only difference is the managing of Pootle. Any question/feedback is appreciated  
**\<sgp\_>** ErCiccione the website URL is wrong (gtmonero.org) :p  
**\<vegasbab\_>** https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/a4bvra/there\_are\_some\_absolutely\_amazing\_funding/  
**\<monerobux>** [REDDIT] There are some absolutely amazing funding proposals up, and they'll be filled in good time. For the sake of decentralization though, I won't ask you all to unload thousands. But for the experience, donate literally 1 cent. Post your txid below, and I'll match it! (https://forum.getmonero.org/8/funding-required) to r/Monero | 10 points (92.0%) | 4 comments | Posted by OsrsNeedsF2P | Created at 2018-12-08 - 16:05:40  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** whoops. Thanks sgp\_, fixing it now  
**\<sgp\_>** and that's the biggest flaw I can see with it lol  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** :P  
**\<sgp\_>** What about the "Monero Integrations Update" proposal? Is this a new contributor?  
**\<oneiric\_>** looked like it from discussion on reddit, had trouble finding the proposal on the forum though  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Nothing? don't know if that's good or bad :)  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** i think we discuss it a bit last time, and said as he was a new contributor, we ask the core team?  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** \*asked  
**\<rehrar>** since it's serhack's project, it's more whether or not serhack is ok working with him  
**\<sgp\_>** it looks like they deleted the old one  
**\<rehrar>** although, yes, we'd like to see some volunteer work first  
**\<rehrar>** as per the usual  
**\<sgp\_>** yeah, I would especially like to hear serhack's opinion on this before making any recommendation  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** deleting the previous post is however strange  
**\<sgp\_>** yeah, a little bit. I feel like I've bumped into this proposal on 3 different pages  
**\<sgp\_>** I checked and we talked about this during the meeting a month ago  
**\<rehrar>** well, he did open a reddit proposal about it  
**\<rehrar>** \*thread  
**\<rehrar>** whatever those god forsaken things are called  
**\<sgp\_>** recently? for this one?  
**\<kinghat>** sexy, dsc\_  
**\<rehrar>** oh, maybe not for this one. But.........somebody opened something. :)  
**\<rehrar>** let me check  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** that's not a very positive signal  
**\<dsc\_>** kinghat: Thanks, I had a haircut yesterday  
**\<sgp\_>** ah this one rehrar: https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/a3xhpm/its\_time\_the\_libraries\_got\_the\_attention\_they\_need/  
**\<monerobux>** [REDDIT] It's time the libraries got the attention they need.. (https://forum.getmonero.org/6/ideas/91259/monero-integrations-update) to r/Monero | 43 points (93.0%) | 5 comments | Posted by MrAntrax | Created at 2018-12-07 - 06:58:33  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** i feel like i agree more with rehrar this time  
**\<kinghat>** lol  
**\<sgp\_>** serhack commented "I'll be happy to donate :D"  
**\<sgp\_>** also got a positive word from cryptochangements  
**\<sgp\_>** ultimately if the two of them are open to it, I don't fell like I should be the one to stand in the way  
**\<rehrar>** disagree  
**\<rehrar>** I'd like to see some work from him first. Volunteer. As usual.  
**\<rehrar>** Has this guy contributed to anything before?  
**\<rehrar>** We just had a tiff with ErCiccione[m] about this not long ago  
**\<rehrar>** same rules apply here  
**\<dsc\_>** I concur.  
**\<sgp\_>** no idea. would you mind making a comment in the Reddit thread regarding your thoughts?  
**\<rehrar>** user Monero claims to be different because we have idealists and passionate people working on the project. And we'd like to know that if the money disappears, that the people will keep going.  
**\<rehrar>** In a sense, the FFS doubles as a way to compensate proven, passionate people for their previous work and service  
**\<rehrar>** excuse the alliteration  
**\<rehrar>** just this little speed bump does wonders in filtering out opportunists  
**\<el00ruobuob>** sorry i got desconnected  
**\<rehrar>** and Monero is young and impressionable enough as a community, and opportunists are so much in this space (as proved by all the ICOs and just taking a look around in the cryptocurrency) that I feel this is a necessary speed bump  
**\<rehrar>** one that will do at least something in keeping the purity of the vision  
**\<sgp\_>** All right, we can recommend moving the first two and tabling the third for now. I strongly recommend you add your comments in the Reddit thread, since it seems to be their primary way of engaging with the community  
**\<rehrar>** Goodness gracious we need to change that.  
**\<rehrar>** but I hear ya  
**\<sgp\_>** all right. any final comments on any FFS proposals?  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** i already said how i think about it. We shouldn't force people to contribute for free before opening an FFS request (it would be very appreciated tho), this will discourage new developers to chip in, and we don't have many. If they want to do it just for the money, fine for me. i don't think we should ask every contributors to be in line with the philosophy of the community, but just to deliver their work  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** following our rules That's just my opinion  
**\<midipoet>** (Sorry am late. Here now...)  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** but i already said this last meeting. Clear that i and rehrar disagree on this :)  
**\<rehrar>** ErCiccione[m]: let's settle this like men  
**\<rehrar>** meet me behind the school at three o clock  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** prepare your lunch money!  
**\<rehrar>** thumb war. Don't call the po po or you lose automatically  
**\<midipoet>** I knew there was a reason for bulletproofs  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** lol  
**\<sgp\_>** thanks ErCiccione. I'm probably somewhere in-between the two of you. It's important to have motivated people working on Monero projects, but I'm not convinced it should mean working for free. we can move on though  
**\<sgp\_>** 4. Workgroup report  
**\<sgp\_>** This is a new separate section where other workgroups can report on all that they are working on. If you would like for your workgroup to be represented, please contact me at least a few hours before the meeting.  
**\<sgp\_>** ^ not really "new" anymore I suppose :)  
**\<sgp\_>** if you have a workgroup report, please raise your hand: o/  
**\<el00ruobuob>** for 3. Does anyone want to say anything about my hidden FFS?  
**\<sgp\_>** whoa, thanks for being persistent!  
**\<el00ruobuob>** i'll end up with a new account to be seen ;)  
**\<sgp\_>** any comments on this proposal? looks good to me  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Nothing new about the localization workgroup, excpet that my FFS proposal was completed yesterday (thanks all for the support) and the new one is starting. and yes, the pootle thing  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** oh, the proposal to reward translators will be out in few days. hopefully tomorrow  
**\<sgp\_>** All right, we recommend the moving of your proposal el00ruobuob  
**\<sgp\_>** I also look forward to seeing the other proposal ErCiccione  
**\<el00ruobuob>** thanks!  
**\<sgp\_>** any other workgroup updates?  
**\<parasew[m]>** yes  
**\<parasew[m]>** A quick update on the 35C3 Monero Workgroup:  
**\<parasew[m]>** The current information on the cluster can be found here: https://signup.c3assemblies.de/assembly/54102b7b-aeff-427c-9da3-f39c4863ee1a  
**\<parasew[m]>** Here is the current layout of our cluster: https://postimg.cc/NLH4gWy1  
**\<parasew[m]>** The cluster also features space for 2 workshops and a stage.  
**\<parasew[m]>** Other assemblies also joined the cluster already, this means they will have a few seats of the total of 115 possible seats. Main priority will be ofc for Monero people.  
**\<parasew[m]>** There is a submission system to handle talks and workshops, please enter talks and workshops there: http://frab.riat.at  
**\<parasew[m]>** There will be a more in-depth meeting tomorrow, Sunday 9.dec 2018 at 17:00 UTC here at #monero-community  
**\<parasew[m]>** [eof] :)  
**\<i\_a>** parasew[m]: super good!  
**\<sgp\_>** I was going to recommend you open an issue for the meeting, but I see you just opened one already  
**\<parasew[m]>** yes sgp\_ thanks, binaryFate called the meeting and i was offline for a few days (the flu got me); but thanks for the reminder :)  
**\<sgp\_>** any final comments before we move on?  
**\<sgp\_>** 5. Open ideas time  
**\<sgp\_>** It’s open ideas time! Feel free to propose your ideas to this discussion group, and feel free to comment on others’ ideas. If you disagree with the idea, please reply with constructive criticism. Thank you!  
**\<el00ruobuob>** well, a few month ago we discuss the website hangout page, and the ressources it contains  
**\<sgp\_>** sarang and I have been working a bit on an idea that isn't finalized but we feel could be pretty awesome  
**\<sgp\_>** I need to join that discussion on GitLab  
**\<el00ruobuob>** i have post a bit of my work in my FFS, but i'd like to share a few image here, to see how you feels about it: https://postimg.cc/DWfJ8Y2f https://postimg.cc/4mzmwTyN  
**\<rehrar>** interesting  
**\<sgp\_>** I like it. I think we should make a recommended format for the workgroups  
**\<rehrar>** but the Team page is going to be reformatted into a Workgroup page  
**\<sgp\_>** o yeah  
**\<sgp\_>** hmm  
**\<el00ruobuob>** so you think we should only keep the ressources here?  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Looks cool  
**\<sgp\_>** rehrar do you have mockups for the Team page?  
**\<rehrar>** sgp\_: I don't  
**\<rehrar>** el00ruobuob: perhaps, yes  
**\<rehrar>** still, the new Team page is quite a ways off. i'm very busy with......everything else  
**\<rehrar>** so perhaps this would be a good stopgap  
**\<sgp\_>** do we even need a team page? could we just include the Core Team as a workgroup? not sure how they would feel about that  
**\<rehrar>** they've discussed it before  
**\<rehrar>** the Stewards Workgroup  
**\<rehrar>** which is why the shift from Team page to Workgroup page  
**\<midipoet>** Stewards. Hehe  
**\<sgp\_>** rehrar we should ask if they're okay dropping the team page entirely then and using this hangouts page  
**\<sgp\_>** and if they have any other comments  
**\<el00ruobuob>** well, the hangouts page still focuses on the places and ressources  
**\<el00ruobuob>** the team page could tell about the people behind  
**\<rehrar>** I think hangouts focusing on places and Workgroups focusing on...well...workgroups is helpful  
**\<parasew[m]>** hey everyone, gtg see you soon!  
**\<el00ruobuob>** but workgroup uses places...  
**\<rehrar>** el00ruobuob: true. Let me think this over for a bit  
**\<rehrar>** the last thing we want is a monolithic page with groups, places, resources, etc.  
**\<rehrar>** but I understand how being too segmented isn't perfect either  
**\<el00ruobuob>** np  
**\<sgp\_>** what about linking to the generic hangouts at the top (eg: r/Monero, \@monero) and then including the workgroups and their individual resources at the bottom with a similar expanding structure?  
**\<rehrar>** I'm not necessarily against that, but the expanding structure should be used as sparingly as possible  
**\<rehrar>** it doesn't play well with language changes  
**\<rehrar>** or anything less than exact CSS for that matter  
**\<rehrar>** it's really annoying  
**\<sgp\_>** keep the top extremely simple: just one logo for each platform  
**\<rehrar>** either way, I have to go  
**\<sgp\_>** all right, take care  
**\<rehrar>** but my idea was to give people a laugh so I made getmonono.org  
**\<rehrar>** check it out. It's not done yet, but I think it's pretty funny.  
**\<el00ruobuob>** it's acutally there, as on the actual page  
**\<sgp\_>** it is very funny  
**\<el00ruobuob>** https://postimg.cc/phpwC8Qb  
**\<midipoet>** It is funny  
**\<rehrar>** floral print logo. I move to change the official logo  
**\<sgp\_>** rehrar do you plan to share this on Reddit? people would get a good laugh  
**\<rehrar>** soon yeah  
**\<sgp\_>** ok  
**\<sgp\_>** el00ruobuob: interesting  
**\<sgp\_>** Since those are already there, it may be redundant to include the same links later in the page  
**\<sgp\_>** I would like to briefly discuss the idea I've been toying with sarang  
**\<el00ruobuob>** of course, hangout may be discuss on the gitlab issue  
**\<sgp\_>** We are considering making a "Breaking Monero" video series where we discuss a specific Monero limitation and for ~15 mins  
**\<SlyFerret>** i need to start christmas shopping.  
**\<SlyFerret>** gonna see if i can buy all with xmr  
**\<midipoet>** sgp: cool idea  
**\<oneiric\_>** rehrar: love monono  
**\<sgp\_>** then we would have a clearer resource for people who don't idle around in #monero-research-lab all day  
**\<el00ruobuob>** sgp\_, that would be awsome  
**\<midipoet>** ~15 mins is quite long a watch though for YouTube generation.  
**\<midipoet>** but definitely a good idwa  
**\<midipoet>** \*idea  
**\<sgp\_>** I think it's as realistically as short as we can make it unfortunately without fancy editing and production. the bulletproof episode was >1 hr  
**\<sgp\_>** any final remarks before we close?  
**\<sgp\_>** 6. Confirm next meeting date/time  
**\<sgp\_>** The next community meeting will be in 2 weeks on Saturday December 22 at 17:00 UTC.  
**\<sgp\_>** The next Monero Coffee Chat will take place next week on Saturday December 15 at 17:00 UTC.  
**\<sgp\_>** When in doubt, use the calendar: https://xmr.ncrypt.sh/index.php/apps/calendar/p/8dP6z6XQDnkPREo4/Monero-Meetings  
**\<sgp\_>** 7. Conclusion  
**\<sgp\_>** That’s all! Thanks for attending this Monero Community meeting, and we hope to see you on r/MoneroCommunity and #monero-community. Take care, and know that change starts with YOU.  
**\<el00ruobuob>** thank you!  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Thanks everybody. Thanks sgp\_ for the moderation  
**\<midipoet>** thanks :-)  
**\<oneiric\_>** much love <3  
