---
date: 2019-07-06
title: Logs for the Community Meeting Held on 2019-07-06
summary: Community highlights, CCS updates, Monero Konferenco recap, Workgroup report, and miscellaneous
tags: [dev diaries, crypto]
author: el00ruobuob / rehrar
---

# Logs  


**\<sgp\_>** let us start    
**\<sgp\_>** 0. Introduction  
**\<sgp\_>** We would like to welcome everyone to this Monero Community Workgroup Meeting!  
**\<sgp\_>** Link to agenda on GitHub: https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/367  
**\<sgp\_>** Monero Community meetings are a discussion place for anything going on in the Monero Community, including other Monero workgroups. We use meetings to encourage the community to share ideas and provide support.  
**\<sgp\_>** 1. Greetings  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** Hi!  
**\<rehrar>** boyo  
**\<msvb-mob>** Hello.  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** hi  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** Yo~  
**\<sgp\_>** welcome all, special thanks to those in their second meeting  
**\<sgp\_>** 2. Community highlights  
**\<sgp\_>** See Monero weekly highlights at https://revuo-monero.com/  
**\<sgp\_>** The Monero community workgroup hosted a coffee chat last weekend: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=swTYc6y95Lw  
**\<monerobux>** [ Monero Coffee Chat - 2019.06.29 - YouTube ] - www.youtube.com  
**\<sgp\_>** I want to give a special shoutout to Monero Talk for their best interview yet in my opinion with Tone Vays: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sJjV4PognZQ  
**\<monerobux>** [ Tone Vays is LIVE on Monero Talk! Is Monero digital cash...or useless??? - YouTube ] - www.youtube.com  
**\<sgp\_>** Does anyone else have community (non-workgroup) updates to share?  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** the Monero Ecosystem project has a new member  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** https://github.com/monero-ecosystem/vanity-monero  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** very nice repo, you can use it to create personalized monero addresses  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** didn't have time to announce it yet  
**\<sgp\_>** very cool  
**\<rehrar>** I used it and have a shiny new XMR address  
**\<rehrar>** is has "diego" in it  
**\<sgp\_>** Breaking Monero Episode 99: Using vanity addresses with your name in it isn't great for opsec :p  
**\<sgp\_>** Any other updates?  
**\<sgp\_>** 3. CCS updates  
**\<sgp\_>** This should be quick today  
**\<sgp\_>** CCS proposals still needing funding:  
**\<sgp\_>** NONE! (btw rehrar the page looks weird with 0 proposals)  
**\<sgp\_>** CCS proposals in ideas to be discussed:  
**\<sgp\_>** “Increase the Adoption of Monero at Avantpay|19 Conference” (250 XMR) https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/merge\_requests/81  
**\<rehrar>** I'll add it again to my mountain of stuff  
**\<sgp\_>** low priority :)  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** I guess Surae's proposal is coming soon  
**\<sgp\_>** I don't think this proposal is useful, and it seems to not have received positive feedback so far  
**\<midipoet>** is that the cannabis conference one?  
**\<sgp\_>** yeah  
**\<rehrar>** the guy has expressed a misunderstanding  
**\<rehrar>** he acknowledges the misunderstanding and agrees the proposal isn't helpful  
**\<sgp\_>** I laughed when I read the part of being promised an attendance list  
**\<sgp\_>** Anyway, unless there are any comments, we can move on. I opened this up in case someone had any  
**\<sgp\_>** 4. Monero Konferenco recap  
**\<sgp\_>** The Monero Konferenco was an important event in the history of Monero. We had two packed (>9 hr) days with talks, panels, parties, and conversations. All talks are available at https://www.youtube.com/c/monerocommunityworkgroup  
**\<monerobux>** [ Monero Community Workgroup - YouTube ] - www.youtube.com  
**\<sgp\_>** The Konferenco was the most watched live event in the history of Monero to my knowledge. People have watched over 66,000 hours of the livestream videos. People watched 26,000 hours of the individual videos. That’s a total of more than 92,000 hours of watched content, and it is still increasing.  
**\<sgp\_>** For reference, the Moneroversary showcase has 25,819 hours of watch time. Breaking Monero episode 1 has 14,435 hours. The most popular Coffee Chat has 11,403 hours.  
**\<sgp\_>** Plus, Monero Talk has 14 interviews for you to watch.  
**\<sgp\_>** Thanks to everyone who attended and watched online. It was a great event, and we luckily have another great event scheduled in early August.  
**\<sgp\_>** Is there anything we should improve for future years?  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** May want to consider hosting one in Europe  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** Perhaps a more formal photography policy  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** e.g. each other year in Europe, each other year in US  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** sgp\_: I think there were some remarks about the food  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** (I noticed on Twitter some folk posted pics of audience's faces)  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** i.e. that it was mostly sweets etc.  
**\<midipoet>** i second dEBRUYNE's idea  
**\<rehrar>** Mexico is the best bet imo  
**\<rehrar>** easy to get into, quite safe, super cheap  
**\<sgp\_>** Portugal?  
**\<midipoet>** ah come one continent distribution is important  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** +1 with dEBRUYNE   
**\<dEBRUYNE>** Mexico is still far away from Europe though :-P  
**\<selsta>** ^  
**\<rehrar>** maybe two a year  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** There's quite a large and vibrant Monero community in Europe  
**\<rehrar>** one your side one our side  
**\<rehrar>** our side needs to be in Mexico though  
**\<rehrar>** all I'm saying  
**\<rehrar>** some people can't come into the USA  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** Ah  
**\<rehrar>** because it's stupid  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** You want to move the US side to Mexico?  
**\<sgp\_>** could do Canada too  
**\<rehrar>** sgp\_, please  
**\<rehrar>** Canada doesn't have Mexican food  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** +1 for a conference in europe  
**\<sgp\_>** Where in Europe would make the most sense? Berlin? Frankfurt? Europe is quite lacking in good Mexican food too :(  
**\<midipoet>** Europeans are weighing in heavy here. i feel a changing of the tide  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** There's good food in Paris  
**\<dsc\_>** Beware you need to fill in Github/Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/Linkedin account when you want to travel to the US  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** Somewhere near Riat perhaps?  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** sgp\_: Preferably somewhere near a well connected airport  
**\<selsta>** Riat is Vienna :P  
**\<rehrar>** el00ruobuob\_[m]: not Mexican food though  
**\<dsc\_>** Vienna good choice, also Berlin  
**\<midipoet>** Berlin! swoon  
**\<dsc\_>** and Prague is cheap.  
**\<selsta>** also Prague yes  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** you can find any food you want in Paris rehrar   
**\<midipoet>** i could take rehrar and sgp\_ to Berghain  
**\<midipoet>** blow their minds  
**\<sgp\_>** dEBRUYNE: no joke I make a table of flight costs to different cities when Brandon was looking at Denver. Denver is one of the cheapest places to fly. I could do the same for European cities  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** Sure  
**\<rehrar>** lol  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** I think something that is relatively sunny would be more atttractive for people  
**\<rehrar>** oh! on a beach!  
**\<rehrar>** oh wait, that's Mexico again :D  
**\<midipoet>** lol  
**\<sgp\_>** Helsinki obvs  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** rehrar: I kind of meant somewhere around the mediterean sea  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** Or portugal  
**\<midipoet>** Croatia would be cool for beaches. and cheap  
**\<sgp\_>** Reykjavik may be a location compromise  
**\<midipoet>** portugal also  
**\<msvb-mob>** Why did Zcash have their conference in Dubrovnik? Do they do every year in Europe or every other year?  
**\<sgp\_>** \*Split  
**\<midipoet>** in Split?  
**\<msvb-mob>** sgp\_: Oh sorry, it was Split. I like your Reykjavik idea a lot.  
**\<sgp\_>** Zcon1 was in Split  
**\<rehrar>** so which one of you  guys is putting together said theoretical Konferenco?  
**\<midipoet>** i actually do have a european contact that puts on conferences  
**\<midipoet>** they did that Provenance event that fluffy was at  
**\<midipoet>** and they are doing Japan Blockchain week  
**\<rehrar>** Brandon can license out his branding  
**\<midipoet>** they live realy close to me irl  
**\<midipoet>** i will see what they say. if people are serious  
**\<rehrar>** sure, why not?  
**\<rehrar>** can't have too much Monero in your life, right?  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** I like the idea of a yearly konferenco  
**\<sgp\_>** We definitely need some event over there that's all about Monero  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** And it is perhaps worthwhile to switch between Europe and NA  
**\<rehrar>** and there's a lot of people that missed this past Konferenco  
**\<rehrar>** ick  
**\<rehrar>** just do two  
**\<rehrar>** different content, different people, different konference  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** Maybe in Paris we could have some Quarkslab or Trezor folks to come for some talks?  
**\<rehrar>** let's discuss after meeting  
**\<rehrar>** kinda interested to see this as a thing  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** Ledger is from France too iirc  
**\<sgp\_>** Sure, we can table this. Looks like people are interested  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** rehrar: Twice a year seems to be a bit excessive though  
**\<midipoet>** i have sent a text/message to see if they would be up for helping.  
**\<sgp\_>** Defcon + KonferencoNA + KonferencoEU + C3 (+ HCPP?) is a lot  
**\<sgp\_>** Defcon will be more promotional in future years though  
**\<rehrar>** you're telling me  
**\<rehrar>** Defcon and C3 are other people's things though, and are more about promotion (as you said) than focused discussion  
**\<sgp\_>** Yes, they will shift to be more promotional as time goes on  
**\<sgp\_>** What time of year are we thinking?  
**\<midipoet>** same time next year, no?  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** oups, correcting myself: Trzor = Prague, Ledger Paris (as dEBRUYNE said)  
**\<sgp\_>** Moneroversary April, Konferenco June, Defcon August, C3 Dec/Jan  
**\<sarang>** Zcash did a different color lanyard if you didn't consent to be photographed  
**\<sarang>** Nice idea  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** June would have decent weather too in southern europe  
**\<dsc\_>** Russia also an option  
**\<sgp\_>** is it like 30C there then?  
**\<dsc\_>** sgp\_: yes  
**\<rehrar>** another vote for russia  
**\<sgp\_>** dsc\_: I unfortunately wouldn't feel comfortable going to Russia, but others may feel it's a good idea  
**\<rehrar>** could go visit in laws  
**\<midipoet>** i am going to say a greek island  
**\<rehrar>** wish suraeNoether was here  
**\<dsc\_>** sgp\_: I feel more comfortable going to Russia than US, as US wants to know everything about me to get a travel VISA  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** Barcelona would probably be a suitable location too  
**\<rehrar>** dsc\_ just likes Russian women  
**\<rehrar>** don't be fooled  
**\<dsc\_>** I mean... :-P  
**\<sgp\_>** it's a personal thing, I would be less safe in Russia unfortunately  
**\<dsc\_>** It would indeed  
**\<midipoet>** we have spent a lot of time on hypothetical locations  
**\<sgp\_>** I will table this for now and see what Brandon was thinking of, but there definitely seems to be a lot of EU interest  
**\<sgp\_>** Thanks for your excitement everyone  
**\<sgp\_>** 5. Workgroup report  
**\<sgp\_>** a. Daemon/CLI workgroup  
**\<sgp\_>** 0.14.1 was finally released a few weeks ago  
**\<sgp\_>** including reproduceable builds  
**\<sgp\_>** I don't have much to say except it was a large update. Any devs can chime in if they want  
**\<sgp\_>** b. Localization workgroup  
**\<sgp\_>** ErCiccione bid farewell to their organizer position to focus on other initiatives  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** :)  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** but i'm still working on weblate,  
**\<sgp\_>** https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/c06vuw/my\_last\_proposal\_as\_coordinator\_of\_the/  
**\<monerobux>** [REDDIT] My last proposal as coordinator of the Localization Workgroup has ended. A recap, some updates, plans for the future of the internationalization of Monero and a huge thanks (self.Monero) | 77 points (94.0%) | 22 comments | Posted by ErCiccione | Created at 2019-06-13 - 15:01:35  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** it's installed on the server and i'm just configuring it. It will be ready soon.  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** Woot woot  
**\<sgp\_>** very nice  
**\<el00ruobuob\_[m]>** cool!  
**\<rehrar>** bye ErCiccione[m]. You will be missed.  
**\<rehrar>** Press F to pay respects  
**\<sgp\_>** ErCiccione[m]: are there any other updates or comments you would like to leave us with?  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** goodbye all  
**\<dsc\_>** :'(  
**\<sgp\_>** :'(  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** except i'm not going anywhere  
**\<midipoet>** wait, i thought you weren't leaving, and just pivoting  
**\<midipoet>** oh jeepers  
**\<midipoet>** that ws sad for a sec  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** midipoet: none of the two, i'm dedicating more time to some non-monero thing i'm working on and other monero things i'm interested in :)  
**\<sgp\_>** I look forward to seeing the localization workgroup continue to do great things  
**\<midipoet>** all good in the hood  
**\<sgp\_>** c. GUI workgroup  
**\<sgp\_>** 0.14.1 was released earlier this week  
**\<sgp\_>** dsc\_: anything you want to mention?  
**\<dsc\_>** Tails user experience is currently pretty horrible (for beginners I guess)  
**\<dsc\_>** I have a colab. going on with someone from the Tor/deepweb/tails/shady/underground/cyberpunk community that actually uses Tails so next release will see Tails integration  
**\<sgp\_>** You obviously wasted your time on the light theme /s https://usercontent.irccloud-cdn.com/file/Q074KonZ/blockfolio%20theme%20poll  
**\<dsc\_>** Hey, I just make what the community tells me to  
**\<rehrar>** the light theme needs a lot of improvement  
**\<rehrar>** not anybody's fault per se  
**\<dsc\_>** You need a lot of improvement  
**\<dsc\_>** Sorry rehrar, continue?  
**\<rehrar>** :D  
**\<dsc\_>** lol  
**\<rehrar>** the white theme needs to be rethought. The contrast is very poor in most areas.  
**\<rehrar>** The type needs to be bigger since the background is yelling at you, scanning is harder with small type  
**\<rehrar>** although the type could be bigger for black theme too  
**\<dsc\_>** Have you tried calibrating your monitor's contrast?  
**\<rehrar>** oh yes, let's just tell every user to calibrate contract  
**\<dsc\_>** We can def. do some improvements there Rehrar, I mostly agree  
**\<rehrar>** I turned it on today  
**\<rehrar>** and turned it off after a few moments  
**\<rehrar>** but hey  
**\<rehrar>** baby steps  
**\<dsc\_>** I'd suggest to create an issue on Github.. Or keep reminding us in #monero-gui to up the contrast and such.  
**\<sgp\_>** On a related note, I've been meaning to finally open an issue on the network settings. I'll get to it eventually since it's important for 0.15  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** not many use the white theme apparently, i wouldn't put too much efforts in that  
**\<rehrar>** ErCiccione[m]: but maybe not many use it because it's unusable?  
**\<dsc\_>** unusable is a big word :-D  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** nah, i think many just use the black theme, that is way cooler IMO  
**\<sgp\_>** dark theme is "in" now. It will change back in ~2 years probably  
**\<dsc\_>** rehrar: I think I lived up to what was previously designed - I think this is something to take to kneuffelbund first  
**\<dsc\_>** Wouldnt you agree?  
**\<midipoet>** i am waiting for the 3D theme  
**\<sgp\_>** lol  
**\<selsta>** if it’s unusable for you it’s definitely something with your monitor  
**\<midipoet>** or his eyes  
**\<selsta>** it’s a black font on white background? :P  
**\<dsc\_>** developers trying to convince a graphics designer his monitor is off - goodluck :D  
**\<rehrar>** probably. Not blaming you dsc\_  
**\<rehrar>** come to defcon dsc\_ I mis syou :'(  
**\<selsta>** your eyes need to adjust when going from dark to light mode  
**\<dsc\_>** Did the earthquake move Las Vegas out of the US? Ill come  
**\<rehrar>** selsta: tiny black letters  
**\<sgp\_>** I'm going to move on, thanks for feedback rehrar and your update dsc\_  
**\<dsc\_>** No, just a sec  
**\<selsta>** Are you using Windows on a high dpi display?  
**\<dsc\_>** So Tails integration is coming up. In addition, I'm working on including the Monero GUI guide directly into the GUI  
**\<rehrar>** we'll talk after meeting guys  
**\<dsc\_>** After that ill work on Tor/i2p  
**\<dsc\_> \</report>**  
**\<rehrar>** nice!  
**\<sgp\_>** thanks for completing the report  
**\<rehrar>** Tor/i2p is thrilling  
**\<sgp\_>** seriously  
**\<sgp\_>** Tails is also cool  
**\<dsc\_>** You'd be suprised how large that userbase is  
**\<sgp\_>** get some good cred points at Defcon  
**\<sgp\_>** speaking of which....  
**\<sgp\_>** d. Defcon workgroup  
**\<sgp\_>** The Defrcon schedule is finalized. We have 20 talks, 7 workshops, dozens of puzzles, and several activities planned. Rehrar, sarang, midipoet, and me talked on Jitsi for 3 hours of planning yesterday. This year will be totally awesome.  
**\<sgp\_>** I won’t go into too much more detail here since we just had the Defcon meeting before this community meeting, but now is the time to look for hotels and airfare. Please have yourself heard in #monero-defcon so we can help you out. We are always looking for more volunteers before and during the event.  
**\<sgp\_>** Questions -> #monero-defcon  
**\<sgp\_>** 6. Open ideas time  
**\<rehrar>** wait  
**\<msvb-mob>** And information on planning is available as well https://taiga.getmonero.org/project/michael-defcon-vegas/  
**\<rehrar>** oh never mind  
**\<sgp\_>** It’s open ideas time! Feel free to propose your ideas to this discussion group, and feel free to comment on others’ ideas. If you disagree with the idea, please reply with constructive criticism. Thank you!  
**\<msvb-mob>** Any hardware questions?  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** re: Tor/I2p integration, to avoid complexity, we are probably going to stick with either one  
**\<sgp\_>** I'm a big proponent of i2p to punch through firewalls to connect to home nodes  
**\<msvb-mob>** What happened to tinyi2p? I thought oneiric liked that one?  
**\<sgp\_>** Not developed yet. WIP  
**\<selsta>** oneiric is the dev of tini2p  
**\<rehrar>** how's that been going btw?  
**\<rehrar>** anyone know?  
**\<sgp\_>** well, presumably WIP. I haven't seen much activity lately  
**\<sgp\_>** i2p-zero now has deterministic builds too  
**\<rehrar>** oof. That's nice.  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** Our idea was to bundle i2p-zero with the GUI  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** tini2p has regular meetings. The last one: https://web.getmonero.org/2019/06/07/logs-for-the-tini2p-dev-meeting-held-on-2019-06-07.html  
**\<kinghat>** dev updates on tinyi2p is on gitter. i dont check that often.  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** Make a checkbox, if ticked -> start i2p and transactions will be pushed over i2p  
**\<sgp\_>** ah, that would be why  
**\<sgp\_>** Any other ideas/discussions? Or do we just want to talk about what city to choose for the conference?  
**\<midipoet>** country first, then city  
**\<sgp\_>** Let me formally end the meeting then, discussion can continue after  
**\<sgp\_>** 7. Confirm next meeting date/time  
**\<sgp\_>** The next community meeting will be in 2 weeks on 20 July at 17:00 UTC. The next Coffee Chat will be on 27 July at 16 or 17 UTC.  
**\<sgp\_>** 8. Conclusion  
**\<sgp\_>** That’s all! Thanks for attending this Monero Community meeting, and we hope to see you on r/MoneroCommunity and #monero-community. Take care, and know that change starts with YOU.
