---
date: 2019-03-30
title: Logs for the Community Meeting Held on 2019-03-30
summary: Community highlights, CCS updates, Workgroup report, and miscellaneous
tags: [dev diaries, crypto]
author: el00ruobuob / SamsungGalaxyPlayer
---

# Logs  

**\<sgp\_>** 0. Introduction  
**\<sgp\_>** We would like to welcome everyone to this Monero Community Meeting!  
**\<sgp\_>** Link to agenda on GitHub: https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/323  
**\<sgp\_>** Monero Community meetings are a discussion place for anything going on in the Monero Community, including other Monero workgroups. We use meetings to encourage the community to share ideas and provide support. Stay up to date with the latest events by subscribing to this calendar: https://xmr.ncrypt.sh/index.php/apps/calendar/p/8dP6z6XQDnkPREo4/Monero-Meetings  
**\<sgp\_>** 1. Greetings  
**\<parasew[m]>** hello!  
**\<sgp\_>** huge crowd of 3 people today :p  
**\<sgp\_>** 2. Community highlights  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** 4!  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** Here too  
**\<sgp\_>** The Tor project now accepts Monero donations: https://donate.torproject.org/cryptocurrency  
**\<rehrar>** oh, I'm here  
**\<sgp\_>** OsrsNeedF2P made an on-chain Monero tip bot, currently only for testnet: https://www.reddit.com/r/MoneroTipsBot/wiki/index  
**\<rehrar>** sgp\_: just link to the revuo  
**\<sgp\_>** Monero was listed on KuCoin: https://www.kucoin.com/news/en-monero-xmr-gets-listed-on-kucoin  
**\<rehrar>** it has everything you just said  
**\<sgp\_>** oh yeah  
**\<sgp\_>** rehrar started this initiative  
**\<sgp\_>** called the Revuo  
**\<sgp\_>** kinda like to old Revuo  
**\<sgp\_>** but there are also weekly issues  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** rehrar: will the new repo be uploaded on the old repo of the revuo in the Ecosystem Project?  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Because right now that repo is basically dead  
**\<sgp\_>** http://revuo-monero.com/weekly-issue.html  
**\<sgp\_>** rehrar: is https still broken?  
**\<rehrar>** oop, forgot to set it up  
**\<rehrar>** you could be getting fed an illegitimate revuo  
**\<rehrar>** via MITM  
**\<rehrar>** and have all of the wrong info  
**\<rehrar>** will get it up today :P  
**\<rehrar>** ErCiccione[m]: the quarterlies (which I plan to restart) are different than the weeklies  
**\<rehrar>** I'll decide how to go about this.  
**\<sgp\_>** That saves me a lot of time each meeting tbh  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Ok, let me know rehrar. i think would be good to have both there at this point  
**\<sgp\_>** Does anyone else have community (non-workgroup) updates to share?  
**\<sgp\_>** 3. CCS updates (previously FFS updates)  
**\<sgp\_>** rehrar made a few updates to the CCS after receiving some feedback. Check it out at https://ccs.getmonero.org  
**\<rehrar>** geez, so far it's the rehrar show. Did any of you guys do anything this week?  
**\<rehrar>** I jest. Relax.  
**\<sgp\_>** CCS proposals still needing funding:  
**\<sgp\_>** v1docq47: video creation / translations into russian (february – july) (0.29/46.8 XMR): https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/v1docq47-video-creation-translations-into-russian-(february-july).html  
**\<sgp\_>** Surae Funding for Q2 2019 (156.05/618 XMR): https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/surae-mrl-research-q2-2019.html  
**\<sgp\_>** moneromooo coding, april 2019 (266.60/410 XMR): https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/mooo-2019-04.html  
**\<sgp\_>** Sarang: research funding for 2019 Q2 (423.93/638 XMR): https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/sarang-2019-q2.html  
**\<sgp\_>** Defcon Monero Party 2019 (14.29/57 XMR): https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/pwrcycle-Defcon\_Monero\_Party\_2019.html  
**\<sgp\_>** el00ruobuob: JANUARY TO MARCH (PART TIME FOR A NEW QUARTER) (16.66/45 XMR): https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/el00ruobuob-january-to-march-part-time-for-a-new-quarter.html  
**\<sgp\_>** Funds short for all of these: 936.98 XMR (about 45,000 USD)  
**\<sgp\_>** CCS proposals in ideas to be discussed:  
**\<sgp\_>** Monero Outreach quarterly and ongoing task funding (asking 84 XMR: https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/merge\_requests/45  
**\<rehrar>** oh wait no  
**\<rehrar>** that's not for discussion  
**\<rehrar>** that belongs in WiP but something needs to be changed  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** I didn't have time to write my new CCS. I hope i can do it today or max tomorrow.  
**\<sgp\_>** rehrar: good to know :)  
**\<rehrar>** I'll ping xmrhaelan again  
**\<sgp\_>** Not much to discuss here this week on these proposals then, just get donating!  
**\<sgp\_>** Does anyone else have a CCS update, or comments about any of these CCS proposals?  
**\<sgp\_>** 4. Workgroup report  
**\<sgp\_>** a. Localization workgroup  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** So,  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Few big news: we have 8 new languages open for translations on Pootle. I explained why i think that's important on reddit https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/b5d5xg/gui\_wallet\_translatable\_in\_8\_new\_languages\_new/  
**\<monerobux>** [REDDIT] GUI Wallet translatable in 8 new languages + New guide for Pootle available (self.Monero) | 18 points (87.0%) | 3 comments | Posted by ErCiccione | Created at 2019-03-25 - 16:55:12  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** I made a guide with screenshots for pootle: https://github.com/monero-ecosystem/monero-translations/blob/master/pootle.md  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** I've also been contacted by some kind of organziation who laims to provide translations for free to project they consider worthy  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** So, at the moment there should be a team working on translating entirely getmonero.org to turkis  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** The chinese translation of the website is going slow, but i found another person willing to contribute, this will hopefully speed things up  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Next steps for the workgroup:  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Translate as many languages as possible for next GUI release is the first priority, when that is done i will focus on improve pootle and integrate more projects  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** i already said what are my plans for the next months, but i will put everything nicely in the new CCS.  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** questions?  
**\<sgp\_>** none from me  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** (my keyboard is missing some letters lately, hope what i wrote is understandable anyway)  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** oh,  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** almost forgot. Once Monerujo will be integrated in Pootle i will totally change the way we use Taiga. Right now i'm using it only for few minor things.  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Fin.  
**\<dsc\_>** GUI update  
**\<dsc\_>** Currently I'm implementing a white theme for the GUI. Will take a while to complete (ETA: 2 weeks). I also finished a redesign of the history page, now called transactions. Not only does it perform well when the user has a lot of historic data, it's also an improvement to UX.  
**\<dsc\_>** kneuffelbund, designer of the GUI, did some IRL testing with \*real\* people and made notes. He is now designing/tweaking the wizards. https://github.com/monero-project/monero-gui/issues/2040  
**\<dsc\_>** Me, Selsta and rbrunner7 worked on `monero://` URI support on Windows/Linux/OSX. Selsta is working on xmr\<->fiat conversions and xiphon is afaik. working on a decentralized node-o-matic.  
**\<dsc\_>** Currently we are investigating a migration to Qt 5.9.7, which should give \*some\* extra performance and allow us to use newer Qt features.  
**\<dsc\_>** After next point release, I will most likely focus on either i2p/tor integrations or android support.  
**\<sgp\_>** since when is "a while" in Monero "two weeks?" :p  
**\<dsc\_>** I actually expect 1 week but I did +1 week because you know... :P  
**\<sgp\_>** all these things look cool  
**\<sgp\_>** which of these are expected for 0.14.1?  
**\<jwinterm>** so six weeks, got it  
**\<dsc\_>** jwinterm knows whatsup :)  
**\<dsc\_>** sgp\_: history page, uri support will make it for sure.  
**\<dsc\_>** White theme is a rather big change, dont think we want to rush it. Needs to be tested extensively.  
**\<sgp\_>** Any other questions or other workgroup updates?  
**\<parasew[m]>** vienna/austria monero is planning a larger meetup and event for "5 years of monero"  
**\<sgp\_>** Wow, that is coming up  
**\<parasew[m]>** also a few peeps are meeting regularly from now on to work, but more as a closed group rather than as a meetup. m2049r, parasew, nevvton, txmr have been meeting about this yesterday.  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Would be cool to organize some kind of online event for the 5 years  
**\<jwinterm>** what is actual birthday?  
**\<parasew[m]>** definitely!!!  
**\<sgp\_>** ErCiccione[m]: I agree  
**\<sgp\_>** April 18  
**\<sgp\_>** I'll ask around and see what people are available and what they want to do  
**\<sgp\_>** parasew[m]: when is the meetup date for this?  
**\<parasew[m]>** we are actually planning for the 18th of april  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** i'm thinking of something  
**\<sgp\_>** ok :)  
**\<sgp\_>** I'll create an organization Github issue after the meeting  
**\<parasew[m]>** but a lot of people are not in vienna of course. i am still fancying the idea of possibly organising a small thing in berlin, but vienna is easier for me to organise ofc.  
**\<parasew[m]>**  ErCiccione: the online idea is also great. this could be a possible way to combine local meetings and connect everyone :)  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** parasew: yes, i think a mix of the two would be very cool.  
**\<parasew[m]>** anything else planned yet for 5 years? to possibly joing forces  
**\<parasew[m]>** \*join  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Don't think so.  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** I think for instance, a countdown would be good to have  
**\<parasew[m]>** countdown to 5 years of the existance of the genesis block?  
**\<sarang>** sgp\_: I have a brief CCS-related announcement to deliver at some point  
**\<sgp\_>** Let me make the Github issue for this, and we can better document what times people are available, what people want to get out of it, and any other details that can be useful  
**\<sgp\_>** Then most of the meeting on the 13th can be used for finalizing the details  
**\<parasew[m]>** amazing sgp\_ !  
**\<sgp\_>** sarang: I think now is a good time  
**\<sarang>** Sure  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Alright  
**\<sarang>** There had been informal talk a while back about Loki Foundation, an Australian charity supporting the Loki project (a Monero fork), wanting to support MRL research  
**\<sarang>** The Foundation has offered to complete the rest of my CCS fundraising externally (i.e. not through CCS directly)  
**\<sarang>** So, unless there are major objections, I'll be asking CCS admins to "freeze" the CCS at its current level, after which the foundation will complete the remaining amount  
**\<sarang>** This lowers the community burden without changing any of my research goals, methods, or reporting  
**\<sgp\_>** As long as you meet the goals/requirements outlined in the CCS that donors gave money to, I see no issues with this  
**\<sarang>** No research goals have changed  
**\<sarang>** I was very specific on this point  
**\<sarang>** Are there any other comments on this?  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** I agree with sgp\_  
**\<rehrar>** yay verily  
**\<sarang>** OK, neat. I will make a comment in CCS outlining this and requesting the freeze from admins  
**\<sarang>** If there is any "overflow" of the total during this process for any reason, the excess can go to the General Fund  
**\<sgp\_>** 6. Confirm next meeting date/time  
**\<sgp\_>** oops not that  
**\<sgp\_>** 5. Open ideas time  
**\<dsc\_>** I have VMs available for any Monero contributor/workgroup. Currently I'm offering hosting services for a couple of XMR workgroups. Hit me up if interested.  
**\<sgp\_>** It’s open ideas time! Feel free to propose your ideas to this discussion group, and feel free to comment on others’ ideas. If you disagree with the idea, please reply with constructive criticism. Thank you!  
**\<sgp\_>** Any ideas to talk about, or are we all thinking about the birthday party  
**\<jwinterm>** did anyone watch the italian guy monerotalk episode?  
**\<sgp\_>** not yet  
**\<jwinterm>** re: voting on the blockchain  
**\<sgp\_>** I want ErCiccione[m]'s thoughts on it!  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** ehm ehm: That's bullshit  
**\<jwinterm>** I saw his comment, and someone had previously asked me what I thought about voting system, perhaps that it could be used in cases of contentious outcomes to ffs proposals  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/b7bj7b/monero\_talk\_live\_in\_10\_min\_a\_chat\_w\_vincenzo\_di/ejqs2c4/  
**\<monerobux>** [REDDIT] Monero Talk LIVE in 10 min! A chat w/ Vincenzo Di Nicola to discuss the Italian government’s testing of an online blockchain voting system built on Monero! (https://www.youtube.com/c/monerotalk) to r/Monero | 10 points (92.0%) | 4 comments | Posted by sunchakr | Created at 2019-03-30 - 13:55:24  
**\<jwinterm>** like i2p one for isntance, with stake holders voting how to wind it down  
**\<sarang>** They contacted me with questions about voting ideas  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** They are just doing political propaganda. They have nothing, just making announcements and getting press attention.  
**\<sarang>** It's certainly fun to think about how it could be done, but it's obviously a very subtle problem to solve  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** sarang: Yes. The problem is that they publicize it like omething they are testing, but they are still looking for ideas on "how to make it work".  
**\<sarang>** To be clear, I don't endorse any particular ideas or implementations for this. I only answered questions because it's an interesting problem  
**\<sarang>** I have not closely followed their timeline or previous announcements  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** It is interesting, but they are exploting that interest to gain political consensus. They have nothing more than: "would be cool to vote on a blockchain, let's figure out how to do it"  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Thank you, but we are all at that point :P  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** btw, in the reddit comment i posted i explain a bit more. I pressed them with questions for week. Now they are a joke in the Italian chat.  
**\<sarang>** It is certainly not a problem to be taken lightly  
**\<sgp\_>** shame  
**\<sarang>** I'll continue thinking about it, since it is a fun set of challenges  
**\<jwinterm>** what is the advantage of voting with ring signatures on the blockchain versus just voting with ring signatures?  
**\<sarang>** They were interested in trust models where the tabulators may not be trusted, etc.  
**\<sarang>** Interestingly, one of the original "classic" academic use cases for ring signatures was anonymous voting  
**\<sarang>** (but not in any particular implementation)  
**\<jwinterm>** right, my thought was that if you wanted to vote on the outcome of a ffs you participated in, then you register your public key at donation time  
**\<jwinterm>** then anyone who donated can later vote by constructing ring sig with all public keys to anonymously vote on outcome  
**\<jwinterm>** but doesn't need to be on blockchain, at least not for that scenario  
**\<sarang>** No, if you assume a trusted party there generally isn't a need for that kind of untrusted distribution  
**\<sgp\_>** I'm going to wrap up the meeting now  
**\<sgp\_>** 6. Confirm next meeting date/time  
**\<sgp\_>** The next community meeting will be in 2 weeks on 13 April at 17:00 UTC.  
**\<sgp\_>** There is a Coffee Chat next week on 6 April at 16:00 UTC.  
**\<sgp\_>** When in doubt, use the calendar. It now has several people adding meetings, so it’s a great resource: https://xmr.ncrypt.sh/index.php/apps/calendar/p/8dP6z6XQDnkPREo4/Monero-Meetings  
**\<sgp\_>** 7. Conclusion  
**\<sgp\_>** That’s all! Thanks for attending this Monero Community meeting, and we hope to see you on r/MoneroCommunity and #monero-community. Take care, and know that change starts with YOU.  
**\<ErCiccione[m]>** Thank you everybody  
**\<parasew[m]>** bye everybody! talk soon!  
