---
date: 2019-08-17
title: Logs for the Community Meeting Held on 2019-08-17
summary: Community highlights, CCS updates, Workgroup report, and miscellaneous
tags: [dev diaries, crypto]
author: el00ruobuob / SamsungGalaxyPlayer
---

# Logs  


**\<sgp\_>** Hello everyone, welcome back to the typical meeting schedule   
**\<sgp\_>** 0. Introduction  
**\<sgp\_>** We would like to welcome everyone to this Monero Community Workgroup Meeting!  
**\<sgp\_>** Link to agenda on GitHub: https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/382  
**\<sgp\_>** Monero Community meetings are a discussion place for anything going on in the Monero Community, including other Monero workgroups. We use meetings to encourage the community to share ideas and provide support.  
**\<sgp\_>** 1. Greetings  
**\<JOhNKmus>** Hello  
**\<rehrar>** hi  
**\<serhack>** hi  
**\<sgp\_>** hello everyone, welcome  
**\<lh1008[m]>** Hello   
**\<sgp\_>** 2. Community highlights  
**\<sgp\_>** Monero just concluded its Defcon village. More details on that later.  
**\<sgp\_>** I need a Blockfolio banner. What should it be? I need an announcement and a link.  
**\<sgp\_>** At the moment, it points to monerovillage.org. not great  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<el00ruobuob>** Hi  
**\<JOhNKmus>** Point to getmonero.org?  
**\<sgp\_>** Sure, but with what text?  
**\<JOhNKmus>** Maybe something about the upgrade to let people know too?  
**\<sgp\_>** Check out the official website?  
**\<JOhNKmus>** Yeah that would work  
**\<sgp\_>** Did you upgrade to 0.14.1 yet?  
**\<sgp\_>** we're supposed to be their test bunny for conversions, so think of some announcements we can make over the next few weeks  
**\<sgp\_>** PM me if you think of any  
**\<sgp\_>** I can use it for the coffee chat to see if it gets more traction than normal I suppose  
**\<midipoet>** waves as he shuffles in late  
**\<sgp\_>** Does anyone else have community (non-workgroup) updates to share?  
**\<sgp\_>** welcome midipoet  
**\<midipoet>** thanks for the heads up...  
**\<lh1008[m]>** Monero News telegram channel was born this week   
**\<sgp\_>** very nice lh1008[m]  
**\<rehrar>** which one is that?  
**\<lh1008[m]>** Oh, and Monero Telegram channel too.  
**\<lh1008[m]>** \<rehrar "which one is that?"> @MoneroNews247  
**\<sgp\_>** any other questions/updates?  
**\<sgp\_>** 3. CCS updates  
**\<sgp\_>** There have been no updates on the CCS proposals in ideas since last meeting. Are there any other comments?  
**\<\_hahsun\_>** hi guys  
**\<JOhNKmus>** hello  
**\<sgp\_>** I'll take that as none  
**\<sgp\_>** please comment on gitlab and reopen the discussions if you are interested in making these proposals come to fruition  
**\<sgp\_>** Ideas in funding required:  
**\<sgp\_>** v1docq47: video creation / translations into russian (august - january) (1.33/37.8 XMR) https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/v1docq47-video-creation-translations-into-russian-(august-january).html  
**\<sgp\_>** Continued funding for Surae for another quarter, Aug Sep Nov 2019 (252.42/357 XMR) https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/surae-mrl-research-q3-2019.html  
**\<sgp\_>** World Crypto Con for rehrar and Sarang (28.73/30 XMR) https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/rehrar-sarang-2019-wcc.html  
**\<sgp\_>** Does anyone else have a CCS update, or comments about any of these CCS proposals?  
**\<rehrar>** there is one that is not showing on the website  
**\<rehrar>** due to being incorrectly formatted  
**\<rehrar>** the one about Monero GIGS  
**\<rehrar>** \*GIFS  
**\<sgp\_>** link?  
**\<rehrar>** grabbing, sec  
**\<rehrar>** https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/merge\_requests/88  
**\<sgp\_>** any comments on this one? looks a little expensive to me, but they have a history of making them and interest  
**\<sgp\_>** deadline is 2019-09-01  
**\<rehrar>** I don't really think it's necessary, but that's just me  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** $800 for 25 gifs seems a bit steep  
**\<sgp\_>** rehrar: are you in touch with Jack? Maybe have him solicit opinions in r/moonero  
**\<rehrar>** ok, I'll have him do that.  
**\<sgp\_>** if people from r/moonero are happy with the rates, then I don't want to be the reason it's not moved  
**\<sgp\_>** maybe it's something that sub-community is interested in funding  
**\<sgp\_>** any final CCS comments?  
**\<\_hahsun\_>** yes a question.  
**\<sgp\_>** sure hahsun  
**\<\_hahsun\_>** what happens when I did work on a proposal? but it is still open?  
**\<dsc\_>** Don't really like the CCS for .gif meme creation.  
**\<\_hahsun\_>** I have reached some milestones that is  
**\<sgp\_>** hahsun: that happens sometimes, and usually they are retroactive if approved and funded  
**\<\_hahsun\_>** ok. and do I have to update it on the open proposal?  
**\<sgp\_>** I would probably comment or something, yes  
**\<\_hahsun\_>** alright will do  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<el00ruobuob>** Btw, didn't we approve the telegram tipbot already?  
**\<sgp\_>** el00ruobuob: I think custody was/is still an open question    
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<el00ruobuob>** Ah ok.  
**\<\_hahsun\_>** yes. I am awaiting a response from fluffy. will update as soon as I get it  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<el00ruobuob>** Great.  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<el00ruobuob>** I still approve it, as a few weeks ago.  
**\<\_hahsun\_>** I got a great response from the communit,.thats why I made a plan B if custody is not taken care by the monero team  
**\<\_hahsun\_>** I see an increase of users by average of 25 users per day. amazing feedback from people with feature requests. I am happy.  
**\<sgp\_>** I'm glad this is proceeding even as you wait for a response  
**\<sgp\_>** 4. Workgroup report  
**\<sgp\_>** moneromooo is still on vacation, but development continues  
**\<lh1008[m]>** \<\_hahsun\_ "I got a great response from the "> Decentralize the responsibility. Just saying.  
**\<sgp\_>** vtnerd make some i2p and lightweight server upgrades  
**\<lh1008[m]>** \<\_hahsun\_ "I see an increase of users by av"> Awesome   
**\<sgp\_>** there are some other node updates  
**\<sgp\_>** 2 output minimum will now be enforced on consensus layer (hooray, thanks Isthmus)  
**\<\_hahsun\_>** I will lh1008. I try. thanks   
**\<sgp\_>** those are the main things that stuck out to me looking at the github commits. Am I missing something?  
**\<kinghat>** looks like there is still activity with the tini2p according to the gitter dev channel  
**\<sgp\_>** interesting. we will have to see how that comes about  
**\<sgp\_>** we met some i2p folks at defcon  
**\<kinghat>** they also posted a defcon report on their forum  
**\<sgp\_>** https://i2pforum.net/viewtopic.php?f=18&t=875&sid=088751cca1b2e6560a01a2e960671eb7  
**\<lh1008[m]>** \<sgp\_ "https://i2pforum.net/viewtopic.p"> Nice!  
**\<sgp\_>** any localization updates? chime in or I'll proceed to the gui updates  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** I think we're largely still waiting for WebLate to be enabled  
**\<dsc\_>** no GUI updates from me  
**\<sgp\_>** GUI has a few other design updates. It's nice to have a group of people consistently participating and politely discussing different options  
**\<sgp\_>** dsc\_ has been slacking indeed   
**\<sgp\_>** totally not focused on the ctf or anything  
**\<dsc\_>** hehe  
**\<sgp\_>** which transitions us nicely to....  
**\<sgp\_>** d. Defcon workgroup  
**\<dsc\_>** also i2p-zero and I traveled to meet certain GUI contributors  
**\<dsc\_>** there is more happening that you dont see ;p  
**\<sgp\_>** Monero^TM  
**\<sgp\_>** Defcon is over! What an event! Livestreams had some issues but are up:  
**\<sgp\_>** Friday: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wNnjO1XSEdg  
**\<monerobux>** [ Monero Defcon27 Village - Friday Livestream - YouTube ] - www.youtube.com  
**\<sgp\_>** Saturday: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J\_9ssXDErqY  
**\<monerobux>** [ Monero Defcon27 Village - Saturday Livestream - YouTube ] - www.youtube.com  
**\<sgp\_>** Sunday: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=un7-pwkZRDc  
**\<monerobux>** [ Monero Defcon27 Village - Sunday Livestream - YouTube ] - www.youtube.com  
**\<sgp\_>** The hotel AV staff recorded all the talks, but they will probably take months to be uploaded. I’ll keep trying to grab copies in the meantime.  
**\<sgp\_>** Read rehrar’s report: https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/cqegma/monero\_village\_defcon\_2019\_report/  
**\<monerobux>** [REDDIT] Monero Village - Defcon 2019 report (self.Monero) | 78 points (96.0%) | 19 comments | Posted by Rehrar | Created at 2019-08-14 - 19:20:38  
**\<sgp\_>** I will be sending photos that I took to the relevant people so that they can share as they choose. Here are what I’m calling “atmosphere photos” of the room and non-people. PM me for original versions of the ones you like: https://imgur.com/a/fu9vmDQ  
**\<sgp\_>** Monero Talk uploaded 10 videos from the event: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC3Hx81QYLoEQkm3vyl4N4eQ/videos  
**\<monerobux>** [ Monero Talk - YouTube ] - www.youtube.com  
**\<sgp\_>** There are many areas for improvement, but I think it was overall an improvement compared to last year. We still need more people to sit at the front tables and answer the "what is Monero" question 10,000 times  
**\<landude>** rehrar's report was great!  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<el00ruobuob>** Where could we find the moneropoly? I need one.  
**\<sgp\_>** el00ruobuob: these were limited first-edition releases. None left. However, CypherMarket will have the second version at some point  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<el00ruobuob>** \\o/  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** Which will be arguably better as they will have custom house/hotel pieces  
**\<sgp\_>** btw rehrar alleges the typical Moneropoly game takes 30 minutes..... more like 3+ hours  
**\<rehrar>** 30-40 if played quickly and by correct rules   
**\<sgp\_>** no way   
**\<sgp\_>** anyway  
**\<sgp\_>** that's all from me for Defcon. we can finally talk about other stuff happening in the community  
**\<sgp\_>** 5. Open ideas time  
**\<sgp\_>** It’s open ideas time! Feel free to propose your ideas to this discussion group, and feel free to comment on others’ ideas. If you disagree with the idea, please reply with constructive criticism. Thank you!  
**\<dsc\_>** I'd like to discuss the possibility of marketing through an (video) advert - how that could look like  
**\<sgp\_>** sure, what do you have in mind  
**\<dsc\_>** I had nothing particular in mind, but something in the spirit of Apples "privacy" commercial  
**\<sgp\_>** I love the way that ad gets the point across  
**\<dsc\_>** It's a very good ad indeed.  
**\<sgp\_>** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A\_6uV9A12ok  
**\<monerobux>** [ Privacy on iPhone — Private Side - YouTube ] - www.youtube.com  
**\<lh1008[m]>** \<landude "rehrar's report was great!"> Yes   
**\<dsc\_>** Monero has barely no marketing - I don't mind that much usually.. but I'm the position to use proffesional equipment to create something.  
**\<dsc\_>** \<== also filmmaker  
**\<sgp\_>** person of many talents  
**\<dsc\_>** Adverts are tricky though. Just wondering what the community thinks.  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** Nice! I'd be down to throw in some money to the CCS or whatever  
**\<lh1008[m]>** \<dsc\_ "I'd like to discuss the possibil"> Nice idea  
**\<sgp\_>** I haven't thought of a video series, but I will tell of one ad campaign we are slowly working on for Mastering Monero  
**\<sgp\_>** We are going to be advertising "Using Bitcoin isn't safe", "using x isn't safe" with links to pages outlining why the privacy protections are terrible, then recommending Monero  
**\<dsc\_>** If anyone has an idea for a 1 minute commercial feel free to send it my way. I shoot on super 16mm (Aaton XTR).  
**\<sgp\_>** dsc\_: do you have anything in mind at the moment?  
**\<dsc\_>** sgp\_: absolutely no idea   
**\<sgp\_>** who is the target audience?  
**\<dsc\_>** It could be something that represents our community and values  
**\<dsc\_>** Which then could be used on the website or .. I don't know.  
**\<sgp\_>** "open source is better"  
**\<sgp\_>** "Monero: we've got your back"  
**\<sgp\_>** "Monero: no surprises"  
**\<dsc\_>** Yeah. Ill make sure it doesn't get cheesy  I can provide some stills from a thing I shot recently.  
**\<dsc\_>** Anyway, just wanted to present the idea.  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** Out of curiosity on the note of advertising, are there any billboard designs people have already?  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** A ~$2K billboard in PHX (roughly 5 mil people) nets roughly 3mil impressions over a month, allegedly  
**\<dsc\_>** Regardless of this video idea I think Monero could currently use some proffesional marketing. Our software is currently stable enough for the masses, good ecosystem all-around (better than during 2017 bubble).  
**\<sgp\_>** Mastering Monero info from Amazon: https://usercontent.irccloud-cdn.com/file/tq2doUtJ/amazon%20advertising  
**\<dsc\_>** But I can also understand if we don't do any marketing since we're a grassroots community. So it's fine eitherway   
**\<JOhNKmus>** If we do marketing maybe it would be a good idea to target areas with privacy conscious people/culture. Not sure how to determine that though...  
**\<sgp\_>** dsc\_: if you advertise Mastering Monero, we may be able to pay for a budget  
**\<dsc\_>** Interesting.  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** I think the video would be worthwhile. While organic word of mouth growth is great, if we want to accelerate adoption the word needs to get out to more people  
**\<sgp\_>** Yes, I think marketing is fine  
**\<sgp\_>** as long as it isn't predatory  
**\<sgp\_>** any final comments before we wrap up? thanks dsc\_ for introducing the topic and offering your skills  
**\<sarang>** Any MRL questions?  
**\<sgp\_>** when auto churn?   
**\<xmrscott[m]>** We should probably have a semi-formal postmortem for DEFCON in the next month or so after folk have had a chance to rest, but before people forget too much  
**\<sgp\_>** kidding  
**\<sarang>** I'm on mobile but can type slowly   
**\<sgp\_>** xmrscott[m]: indeed, would be good  
**\<xmrscott[m]>** I'll post the info here after polling folk for a good time in -defcon  
**\<sgp\_>** 6. Confirm next meeting date/time  
**\<sgp\_>** The next community meeting will be in 2 weeks on 7 September at 17:00 UTC. The next Coffee Chat will be on 24 August at 16 UTC.  
**\<sgp\_>** 7. Conclusion  
**\<sgp\_>** That’s all! Thanks for attending this Monero Community meeting, and we hope to see you on r/MoneroCommunity and #monero-community. Take care, and know that change starts with YOU.  
