---
date: 2020-04-25
title: Logs for the Community Meeting Held on 2020-04-25
tags: [dev diaries, crypto]
author: asymptotically / SamsungGalaxyPlayer
---

# Logs

**\<sgp\_\>** 0. Introduction  
**\<kinghat[m]\>** o/  
**\<sgp\_\>** We would like to welcome everyone to this Monero Community Workgroup Meeting!  
**\<sgp\_\>** Link to agenda on GitHub: https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/457  
**\<sgp\_\>** Monero Community meetings are a discussion place for anything going on in the Monero Community, including other Monero workgroups. We use meetings to encourage the community to share ideas and provide support.  
**\<sgp\_\>** 1. Greetings  
**\<msvb-mob\>** Hello.  
**\<binaryFate\>** random guy runs a community meeting  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** Osu~  
**\<netrik182\>** hi  
**\<deedledea\>** hi!  
**\<sgp\_\>** binaryFate: lmao  
**\<ajs-mob\>** hi  
**\<sgp\_\>** 2. Community highlights  
**\<sgp\_\>** See Monero weekly highlights at https://revuo-monero.com  
**\<sgp\_\>** Check out resources at https://communityworkgroup.org. We can use this page to more easily organize Monero Community Workgroup resources going forward. It also has a calendar you can subscribe to for meeting reminders.  
**\<sgp\_\>** Does anyone have community (non-workgroup) updates to share?  
**\<sgp\_\>** 3. CCS updates  
**\<sgp\_\>** Funding required:  
**\<sgp\_\>** Monero Debian Package Repository for 2 years (42.54 / 73 XMR) https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/adrelanos-debian-package.html  
**\<sgp\_\>** xiphon part-time coding (3 months) (69.09 / 371 XMR) https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/adrelanos-debian-package.html  
**\<sgp\_\>** Ideas (to be discussed):  
**\<sgp\_\>** Translation of Mastering Monero into Brazilian Portuguese (37 XMR) https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/-/merge_requests/137  
**\<sgp\_\>** Note: I have a financial interest in Mastering Monero  
**\<rehrar\>** profiteering  
**\<rehrar\>** reeee  
**\<netrik182\>** I proposed translating Mastering Monero if anyone has questions  
**\<netrik182\>** There was a reddit post as well: https://old.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/g3vqoi/my\_ccs_proposal_to_translate_mastering_monero_is/  
**\<sgp\_\>** thanks for being here netrik182. they helped us a TON with the subtitles for Monero Means Money  
**\<Inge-\>** does it have any other language translations?  
**\<ArticMine\>** hi  
**\<netrik182\>** I don't think so  
**\<binaryFate\>** how different are portuguese vs. brazilian? Is there strong value in having a brazilian specific version? I didn't see mention of that in the proposal  
**\<netrik182\>** Almost no difference really  
**\<sgp\_\>** Inge-: there's a Chinese translation zh.masteringmonero.com and a partially reviewed Russian translation  
**\<binaryFate\>** so it's going to be easy and comfortable to read for portuguese people as well?  
**\<Inge-\>** Spanish would be great too  
**\<netrik182\>** But as Brazilian I would do so called Brazilian Portuguese instead of European, so to speak  
**\<rehrar\>** "so to speak" hehe, I get it  
**\<netrik182\>** Not a problem at all binaryFate  
\* Inge- is positive to Brazilian translation  
**\<netrik182\>** Most of the online content in portuguese is written by brazilians  
**\<netrik182\>** but everyone can read it  
**\<binaryFate\>** oki thanks  
**\<netrik182\>** think of Britain vs USA English  
**\<netrik182\>** it's the same  
**\<sgp\_\>** Any other questions or feedback?  
**\<sgp\_\>** ok, second one  
**\<sgp\_\>** Compilation time reduction and housekeeping (52 XMR) https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/-/merge_requests/138  
**\<sgp\_\>** you need to click on "changes" to see the text  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** I believe this would help with the issues Endogenic highlighted at Konferenco  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** Thus, I'd like to see it  
**\<rehrar\>** Thusly  
**\<endogenic\>** ossssssu  
**\<binaryFate\>** Proposal looks interesting but I didn't follow the -dev discussions about it, anybody knows?  
**\<rehrar\>** A note on the CCS proposals, the Norwegian one was merged and it's not showing. I tried to fix and it's still not showing. Working that out.  
**\<sgp\_\>** binaryFate: I don't see a dev discussion in the past week  
**\<binaryFate\>** mmm I thought I had skeemed through some mentions of this  
**\<asymptotically\>** i think i last talked in -dev with the compile time speedup guy, so if you grep your logs for me it should come up :D  
**\<sgp\_\>** any comments on this otherwise?  
\* needbrrrrrrr90 sneaks in the back entrance and takes a seat  
**\<sgp\_\>** messy logs of the discussion https://www.irccloud.com/pastebin/73V4aGO4/logs  
**\<sgp\_\>** we can move on. please comment in gitlab. looking at you devs :)  
**\<sgp\_\>** 4. Workgroup report  
**\<sgp\_\>** a. Daemon/CLI workgroup  
**\<sgp\_\>** luigi merged a bunch of things, including dandelion++  
**\<sgp\_\>** does anyone else have an update here? else we can move to b  
**\<sgp\_\>** is ErCiccione[m] here?  
**\<cankerwort\>** when next release?  
**\<sgp\_\>** rehrar: do you know when the next dev meeting is?  
**\<sgp\_\>** tomorrow?  
**\<cankerwort\>** dandelion++ for the masses  
**\<netrik182\>** ErCiccione was not feeling well during the week so probably not here  
**\<rehrar\>** sgp\_: whenever we want it to be. People had voiced that dev meetings should be kind of before releases and stuff, but if we wanted to set one up then we can.  
**\<sgp\_\>** rehrar: ok, keep me updated so I can update the calendar  
**\<sgp\_\>** cankerwort: unfortunately I don't really have a good update  
**\<sgp\_\>** if ErCiccione isn't here, we can move on to c  
**\<sgp\_\>** c. GUI workgroup  
**\<sgp\_\>** selsta any update?  
**\<selsta\>** we are preparing for the next update  
**\<selsta\>** no big updates otherwise  
**\<sgp\_\>** thanks  
**\<sgp\_\>** is sarang here?  
**\<sgp\_\>** We can move on to 5. Open ideas time  
**\<selsta\>** 19:12 <sgp\_> Compilation time reduction and housekeeping (52 XMR) https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/-/merge_requests/138 <-- I think mooo and others should agree first if they want this  
**\<sgp\_\>** selsta: yeah  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** Pi/Rock node is currently looking for WEb UI folk: https://www.reddit.com/r/pinode/comments/fuwryy/pinodexmr\_updated_full_node_for_single_board/  
**\<monerobux\>** [REDDIT] PiNode-XMR updated. Full node ( for single board computers ) not just Raspberry Pi --- Armbian Buster & Hardware testers needed. New Web UI proposal with help needed from the community. (self.pinode) | 6 points (100.0%) | 3 comments | Posted by shermand100 | Created at 2020-04-04 - 16:40:22  
**\<sgp\_\>** Does anyone have topics to discuss? It's been a long time since the last open ideas time  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** (This is the monero-ecosystem/pinode-XMR project)  
**\<sgp\_\>** xmrscott[m]: cool :)  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** Namely, they want to build a Web dashboard from scratch to shed a bunch of extra weight they inherited from basically pulling a cookie cutter  
**\<sgp\_\>** Moneroversary debrief: so far this year’s main livestream has 1,025 and 255.5 hours of watch time. Last year’s Moneroversary main livestream has 1,337 views and 440 hours of watch time. Like last year, not many people are watching the events afterwards.  
**\<sgp\_\>** \*1,025 views  
**\<sgp\_\>** Since the community feedback on a Chatwoot service by the Core Team seemed mostly negative, I plan on making my own which I hope to integrate in as many Monero accounts/pages/etc as possible  
**\<sgp\_\>** This is a chat support service that I think could benefit newcomers and those with questions  
**\<sgp\_\>** It will allow us to learn more clearly what the pain points are so we can fix them  
**\<binaryFate\>** summary of negative feedback?  
**\<deedledea\>** pain points of newcomers?  
**\<sgp\_\>** And I will make a series of trainings that people can use to get up to speed to be able to answer questions  
**\<sgp\_\>** deedledea: yes  
**\<sgp\_\>** binaryFate: people didn't want it embedded on the getmonero site, people were concerned about legal stuff, and people were pessimistic that the tool should be used over other support services like StackExchange and reading the docs  
**\<binaryFate\>** ok so more about the location itself  
**\<sgp\_\>** I'm heavily considering making this my own thing, so any feedback on how to do this best is welcome :)  
**\<sgp\_\>** what other projects are people thinking of? we need people to take on fun projects and get stuff done  
**\<netrik182\>** there were some discussions about revamping getmonero.org home-page to be more beginner-friendly  
**\<sgp\_\>** netrik182: oh yes, let me find that github issue/PR  
**\<sgp\_\>** https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/pull/948  
**\<sgp\_\>** I recommended another card that has icons for the following: 1) private for all, 2) coin equality, 3) secure  
**\<sgp\_\>** I like "coin equality" over "fungibility" in this context  
**\<binaryFate\>** I hate the old video on the front page, particularly because it says "more than 30 developers"  
**\<binaryFate\>** This was made in 2015 or 16 I think. Now there is more than 300.  
**\<sgp\_\>** haha same. iirc there are resources available to edit that sorta easily?  
**\<cankerwort\>** what sites would you be putting this  chatwoot on sgp?  
**\<sgp\_\>** people still quote the >30 number so it's an issue for press  
**\<binaryFate\>** we had people reaching out fairly recently for a documentary on crypto asking if they could use that video  
**\<binaryFate\>** painfull to say "yes but it's outdated! Now it's..." knowing they'll just use the video period.  
**\<sgp\_\>** cankerwort: its own dedicated site, ideally the @monero twitter for DMs if people think that's a good idea, and r/monerosupport (again if people think it's a good idea)  
**\<sgp\_\>** binaryFate: good point  
**\<sgp\_\>** also all the Kovri references  
**\<binaryFate\>** Is there someone in the community that could assess cost/effort of changing that numbers and also maybe redo video. It's not a very intricate one.  
**\<ArticMine\>** So the video needs to be updated  
**\<rehrar\>** binaryFate: we're a tiny coin  
**\<ArticMine\>** that gas grown 1000 since the video was created  
**\<ArticMine\>** has  
**\<rehrar\>** what was the guy's name that made it? silvestra?  
**\<binaryFate\>** rehrar I wish... was so cozy!  
**\<sgp\_\>** here are the scripts/translations. I'm looking for the other repo https://github.com/monero-ecosystem/promo-video  
**\<sgp\_\>** savandra! https://github.com/savandra/Monero_Promo_Video  
**\<rehrar\>** that's it!  
**\<rehrar\>** maybe we can track him down and see if he'd be willing to do an edit  
**\<sgp\_\>** https://github.com/savandra/Monero_Promo_Video/blob/master/Illustrator_Vectors/monero%20developers.ai  
**\<selsta\>** we have to find out who did the voice over  
**\<sgp\_\>** just have Doug do it :p  
**\<binaryFate\>** I'd venture that we can redo the voice over with a different voice :)  
**\<asymptotically\>** i nominate rehrar or jwinterm! just because i love listening to them <3  
**\<rehrar\>** rehrar: "What up scrubs? This video is about Moh-neh-roh!"  
**\<binaryFate\>** Probably just 50$ on upwork if you want same kind of deep professional voice  
**\<rehrar\>** I do have a super fancy mic, as most of you have seen.  
**\<selsta\>** I think having it sound professional would be important, especially because voice overs aren’t to costly  
**\<rehrar\>** :(  
**\<selsta\>** too\*  
**\<selsta\>** you can do a version rehrar :D  
**\<sgp\_\>** voiceover tryouts  
**\<rehrar\>** I'll put my version on http://getmonono.org  
**\<binaryFate\>** yes please  
**\<ajs-mob\>** I could help with editing the video  
**\<binaryFate\>** perfect and thank you  
**\<sgp\_\>** does anyone have Adobe AfterEffects?  
**\<rehrar\>** I do, but I don't know how to use it.  
**\<cankerwort\>** "Monono has over -1 developers"  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** Always KdenLive as well  
**\<rehrar\>** this is technially true  
**\<sgp\_\>** no numbers  
**\<rehrar\>** Monero has over x developers  
**\<sgp\_\>** "Monero has a large, active development community"  
**\<rehrar\>** "Monero has developers"  
**\<selsta\>** not sure if having had 300+ code contributions means monero has 300 developers  
**\<selsta\>** 300+ code contributions from different accounts  
**\<selsta\>** maybe "over 250+ people contributed with an active development community"  
**\<binaryFate\>** it's the third largest crypto in number of developers after BTC or ETH, this should be conveyed clearly one way or another  
**\<selsta\>** or so  
**\<binaryFate\>** I think you're being too careful/shy on this particular instance selsta. It's a video where we can't use unclear longer phrasing or waste words  
**\<selsta\>** maybe :D  
**\<binaryFate\>** All the rest of the Monero content is always so careful and honest... at least with this we can make a clear statement  
**\<sgp\_\>** "one of the largest open-source developer communities"  
**\<sgp\_\>** I'm trying to choose wording that also lasts  
**\<binaryFate\>** better, but honestly any coin would say so  
**\<selsta\>** yea I’m better not involved with this video lol  
**\<binaryFate\>** We don't need to make a video valid for 4 years  
**\<sgp\_\>** this one has been used for 3  
**\<binaryFate\>** "with X developers, it's the third largest development communicty after Bitcoin and Ethereum"  
**\<sgp\_\>** just remove "with X developers"  
**\<deedledea\>** @sgp if you want any tests for a non-technical-audience on the content just let me know...I can wrangle up a few I am sure!  
**\<sgp\_\>** deedledea: that's SUPER helpful; I'll keep that in mind  
**\<selsta\>** should the target audience be crypto users?  
**\<selsta\>** because I’ve always found the block reward part confusing in this video  
**\<selsta\>** people who are not familiar with crypto don’t know what a block reward is  
**\<binaryFate\>** IMO audience is layman journalist or complete newb  
**\<rehrar\>** Let's have a first step being writing up a new script.  
**\<rehrar\>** We can talk about voice work and discuss how much of the visuals need to be changed after we have a good script.  
**\<rehrar\>** The cryptocurrency space is different today than it was three years ago.  
**\<rehrar\>** The average 'noob' is also different.  
**\<sgp\_\>** I'd like to make a main goal to keep as many visuals the same unless we know we have the skills to adapt  
**\<sgp\_\>** something along these lines in the ideal case: https://twitter.com/Bitcoin/status/1253656381711888391  
**\<monerobux\>** [ Bitcoin on Twitter: "Bitcoin explained in two minutes… " ] - twitter.com  
**\<sgp\_\>** though even shorter  
**\<sgp\_\>** anyway, we have one project to work on. please think of others today that YOU can work on this week  
**\<sgp\_\>** for the sake of time, I'll wrap this meeting  
**\<deedledea\>** visuals are always good! ideally there would be videos for different audiences, but if we are talking about gaining a few different audiences at once (i.e. that it's technical enough to peek the interest of developers and digestible enough for the non-technical to want to explore more) then content creation and communication is tricky. I like the challenge, I'll think more on it on my end!  
**\<sgp\_\>** 6. Confirm next meeting date/time  
**\<sgp\_\>** The next community meeting will be in 2 weeks on 9 May at 17:00 UTC.  
**\<sgp\_\>** The next Coffee Chat is on Saturday 2 May at 17:00 UTC  
**\<sgp\_\>** Conclusion  
**\<sgp\_\>** That’s all! Thanks for attending this Monero Community meeting, and we hope to see you on r/MoneroCommunity and #monero-community. Take care, STAY SAFE AND ISOLATED, and know that change starts with YOU.  
